---
title: "Transcript: Becoming A Sage - A New Vision For Actualized.org & You!"
search:
  exclude: true
---

# Transcript: Becoming A Sage - A New Vision For Actualized.org & You!

**YouTube:** [Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z2wNbLO02Wg)

---

Hey, this is Leo for actualized.org and in this episode I'm going to be talking about becoming a sage, the ultimate vision for your life. [Music] As I'm evolving, actualized.org must evolve as well. And over the last three or four years that I've been running actualized.org, org. I've been releasing lots of content about how to improve yourself and how to self-actualize. And I'm still really into self-actualization, but I want to take it to the next level because I'm always looking for that next level vision that will inspire me to work towards my full potential and that will inspire you to work towards your full potential in life. Cuz I'm really passion. I don't know why, but I'm always really passionate about getting the most out of life. That's just been like a question that's been burning in the back of my mind since I was a kid. , And the stuff that I've learned over the last three years, you know, I've been doing a lot of research. And the more research I do, the more of a big picture , understanding I see of what the hell is going on here in life, in society, in culture, with psychology, with business, , with polit like all the pieces start to fit together and they all make sense in a very beautiful sort of way. And as you start to see that picture, or at least as I do, um, , I just kind of get this muse that tells me like, okay, here's how I should realign what I'm doing with my work and , my own life in order to get the most out of my life. , And so, it's time to refine a little bit what actualize.org is about. And the way that we're going to do that is um let me , try to get to explain a little bit of where I'm coming from with this. So um ask yourself this question. What's the best life possible? , What's the best life possible for a human being? , Now maybe you think that's a question that can't be answered. , But what I would suggest is actually that it can and it has been answered and it's been answered for thousands of years. , Uh the only problem is that most human beings are in the dark about this. , You're not taught this at school. So here's what you can do. You can go and you can do the research. You can read books. You can study biographies. You , can study psychology. You can ask this question of yourself for years. You can read philosophy books and stuff like that. And here's what you'll discover. , You'll discover that the greatest human beings who ever lived were not entrepreneurs. , They were not celebrities. They were not athletes. They were not political leaders. They weren't CEOs. They were , not engineers, nor academics, nor scientists, nor artists, nor self-help teachers. , They were sages and mystics. , These are the greatest human beings who ever lived. And I'm not using the word great here in the sort of social sense. , We say, "Oh, yeah, that's great." as though that person has a lot of status like a celebrity. Oh, he's really great. , He's amazing because he's Tom Cruz or something like No, not like that. What I mean is great in the sense of who gets the most juice out of life? , That's the question that's really well, it should be at the uh at the top of the list of questions we ask in life, , right? How do you get the most juice out of life? I mean, we're born. We're not even sure how we're born, what we're , born into. What the hell is this thing here we are? , It seems like this is a fleeting phenomenon, this thing we call life. If so, if I only have this one life, then I , better make the best use of it. Um, and if that's the case, what is the best use of this one life? , Becoming a sage. , And that's the purpose that I want to orient actualize.org to not just self-help, , not just self-actualization, although that's a beautiful concept and for most people that would be life transforming, , but even more than that, , to become a sage. And I want actualize.org to be a how to become a sage channel or how to become a sage , website where basically I provide you with sort of resources for how to become a sage because that's an interesting question. Once you decide on this idea , that I'm going to become a sage then it's like well damn that's that's a pretty tall order to fill. How do I fill those shoes? What's the process there? And believe it or not, you can study this. You can study how to become a sage and then you can do it. What's crazy , though is that as kids, you know, as kids we're presented with choices like what do you want to be when you grow up? , Well, I want to be like a firefighter, a doctor, a an astronaut, this sort of stuff, right? But nobody ever presents , you the option as a kid to become a sage. , Man, what I wouldn't give to have been presented that option when I was like five years old. I didn't even know that that was a possibility. , And really, I only found out it was a possibility just a few years ago from doing lots of research. And I think that , most people don't know, but if more people did know, I think they would really be on board because it's an amazing vision. What I want to do here is I want to share with you the vision , of what being a sage is all about and what it means to be a sage. , But as far as actualize.org goes, I really wanted to sort of be like sage university. If you wanted to become a sage, where would you go? Well, , basically most sages, how do they do it? They just figure it out by themselves. , They kind of stumble through it or they find a guru or whatever, you know? Yeah, , you can you can find people out there who will sort of teach you, but it's really hard to like pick up a book that tells you here's the steps you have to follow to become a sage. Here's how to , think. Here's how to talk. Here's how to walk. Here's what you have to eat and so forth. But it's funny, you could write a , book like that. Um, I don't know how many people would buy it though cuz most people don't even have the notion that , becoming a sage is something that's worthwhile to pursue. And also, you know, becoming a sage isn't easy. It's hard work. , So, if we do the hard work to become a sage, why are we doing it? Well, , probably because there's some sort of big payoff on the end, right? Uh and I'll talk about what that is. So, a.org , is going to be sort of like Sage University and um kind of I just want to catalog like , I'm interested in cataloging all the conceptual frameworks and models and techniques and methods that are , necessary to become a sage and since I'm doing this for myself since I've I've discovered this. So the reason I'm sharing this with you is because basically I've this is what I decided on , in my own life is that I'm becoming a sage. Um, and so that's what I'm after. , And now I'm trying to document that. I wish I could just have like a camera following me around everywhere I go and sit inside my head. And then you could , just get a feed from that and watch it and like, oh, okay. Yeah, this is this is the process, right? Cuz I think that um, you know, sages have been made for , thousands of years, but no one has really documented the process of making a sage or at least, you know, it's little known , about. And even if there are techniques and methods and stuff from the past, it tends not to resonate with modernday people, we tend to think like, well, , sages sages existed 2,000 years ago or something like that. They don't they don't exist now. That's not possible these days, is it? Um, and yeah, it , certainly is. Certainly is. So, let's uh backtrack a little bit and talk about um what it really means to be a sage. What does this word mean? , I'm going to use the word sage and mystic here interchangeably even though we could split hairs and maybe in the future I'll go in and , distinguish these two but for now sage/mystic sort of the same thing for me. So uh we can take a look at the history books and we see people like the , Buddha, Christ, Heracitis, Socrates, Mahaviraa, , Piro, Marcus Aurelius, Epictitus, Dioynes, Confucious, , Chwangsa, Roomie, Yogananda, , Gandhi, and here now we're starting to get into the more modern sages. So you can see we have the ancient ones from thousands of years ago. We also have , more modern ones that are just like a hundred years old, you know, like Gandhi, Rahman, Maharishi, Naradada. , Um, and then we have the really modern ones which are still alive like Daly Lama, Osho. Osho is not alive anymore, but he died like in the early 90s, , fairly recent. Sad Guru is a favorite modern sage of mine. Robbie Robbie Shankar. Ken Wilbur I consider sort of a , sage. uh Peter Rston I consider a modern sage. And I mean this list could be a lot more uh exhaustive. This is just the , tip of the iceberg. But many of these names you probably don't even know, , haven't even heard of. You need to go research them. And I encourage you to go read and research about these sorts of people. It's inspiring because if you are going to be becoming a sage, well, , you want to take a look at what did these people really do? How did they live? How were they different than the average person? It's not a matter of success. It's not a matter of achievement. , That's not what makes these people great. , It's uh a quality of self-mastery, I would say. , I mean, there's more to it than just that, but if we just kind of glossed it over, it would be something along the lines of selfmastery. , Uh, I've actually been very fortunate to meet uh uh some modern sages that are alive , right now and I've been really blown away and inspired by the kind of life that they live. Not because their life , is flashy and the average person would look at this sage and say, "Oh, what's the big deal? So what? This per this this is your person who you say I should emulate?" , That's because you're looking at the surface, right? And the real juice in life is gotten on the inside. And it's really hard to gauge someone from the , inside. But when you do, if you ever are lucky enough to encounter a modern sage, , uh you'll get it. Like you'll just instantly get it. They have a a way of speaking, a way of thinking, a way of um , relating with you that's just completely different than the average human being. , And it's a subtle thing. It's an ethereal thing. It's hard to pin down what that is. You sort of have to have this intuitive radar inside you to see , the other person to say, "Yeah, that's the real deal. That guy right there is the real deal. , And that's just amazing. How did he do that? How can I do that? What would it be like if my life was like that? Why , wasn't I living my life that way from the very beginning? And why didn't my parents teach me this? And why didn't my teachers teach me this? Why didn't my professors teach me this? Why didn't my , co why is nobody in society talking about this? And I mean they are to be fair they are. , A lot of it is talked about in religion. , The problem is that religious distorts it and actually turns uh uh turns the virtues of a sage upside down and inside , out which um is you know one of the problems cuz religion originally its aim was supposed to be to deliver these , teachings to you. The problem is of course that once the ego gets hold of religion and of these teachings uh it goes downhill real fast. , Yeah. I've just been blown away by some of these people that I've met. , just absolutely blown away. When you meet a person like this, you get the sense that this is a true master. , Not of any technical skill or a technical art, not a meditation master. , That's not what I'm talking about. Just like a true master of being human, , of being an excellent human being, a master of that, a master of understanding reality and life. , And it's deeply inspiring. Deeply inspiring. And you can see in this person that this person is actually able to enjoy life as it is. , They're able to enjoy life, to really enjoy life. And that this is really what um , being a human is all about. And yet we're so disconnected from this if we're the average human being. , Some of the key qualities that I see in such sages are a commitment to truth with a capital T, , a commitment to consciousness, to goodness, and to love, and a deep mastery of these things to the point where it's embodied effortlessly. , They're not trying at it. It's embodied effortlessly. , And I also see within them a radical turning inward, , radical turning inward to completely transform themselves from the inside out. , And when you see the fruits of that transformation, it can be subtle but also shocking. , On the surface, they look very normal. , They don't have a halo around them or anything like that. , But also, you can quickly see that there's nothing normal about it. , There's nothing normal about their relationships or about um their their relationship to to society , or how they think about themselves or how they communicate. , And this here goes way beyond just enlightenment. You might think like, , well, Leo, aren't you just talking more about enlightenment? If I get enlightened, then this is what I'll have. No. No, you won't. There's a big difference between being enlightened, , having one or two enlightenment experiences, and being a sage proper, a masterful sage. , Big difference. , So, that's something we'll talk about more in the future. Uh, for now though, , let me share my vision with you of what I want you to kind of focus on if you want. I'm not saying you have to do this. This is just something that I think you would want if you knew about , it. becoming what I envision as the modern mystic sage. What does that mean exactly? That means basically we're , taking eastern non-duality and we're pairing that with a sort of like ancient western Greek philosopher. So take like , the Zen master yogi from the east paired with an ancient Greek philosopher from the west. combine them together maybe , with a little bit of dash of scientist and a dash of artist thrown in there and now you've got this kind of like , Renaissance man, Renaissance woman. And this person is both a master of consciousness but also has a very vast and deep conceptual understanding too. , I see sometimes people swing the pendulum too much in one direction or the next. So it's like some people are overly intellectual to the point of , being closed off to awareness and consciousness. Those are like the academics and the scientists. On the other end of the spectrum, you have these people who are the newagers who , are really into consciousness and stuff like that, but then aren't really grounded and don't have much conceptual knowledge and they somehow see that as , being um a hindrance to their spirituality. No, really what you want is you want both. , You want to be a union of left brain and right brain. , And you want to do this in such a way where you don't go live off in a cave, , but more likely what you do is you will apply this mastery of yourself and understanding of the world to real world problems. , So you're in the world, you're living in the world, you're part of the world, , and you're also highly creative and productive because one of the um , fruits of mastering yourself is that you also master your own creativity and you master all the blocks that you have to , unleashing your full creativity and all the blocks you have towards being productive. So those become more and , more effortless for you and they become more and more magical and more fulfilling. , So that's kind of my vision for you. Now it's also important to distinguish what a sage is not. Don't confuse this. A , sage is not a cold smart alec intellectual or academic who just lives in theory land and just , studies a bunch of stuff and knows a bunch of stuff but then has no knowledge of himself, his emotions, no mastery of , relationships, no mastery of of his body, his energy and all this sort of stuff. There's a big difference there. , And also um a sage is not uh an ideological crusader. , Sometimes I run into these sorts of people uh like they call them they like to call themselves skeptics or rationalists or libertarians or whatever , and they're they're on some sort of ideological crusade to convert the world to their point of , view whatever it happens to be. And they also tend to be intellectual, right? So they they like to intellectualize a lot , and so in practice they end up being stuck in their own head and then this sort of ideological crusade actually is a pretty ugly thing when you look at it , doesn't have much compassion, love or really understanding and it shows little selfmastery. , These people are mostly oriented outwards at converting others rather than really looking inwards in themselves. There's no radical turning inward in these people. Not really. , So at this point you might wonder well Leo okay how do I become a sage let's say I buy into this vision how , here we have to be a little careful because the vision is more important than the how. , This is always the case with a big ambitious vision. , When you have a giant ambitious vision you don't know the how. Imagine a kid who's like 7 years old and he tells you, , you know, daddy, I want to be a u an astronaut and then you ask him, well, , how how are you going to become an astronaut? That would be the wrong question, right? Because it's not important for the kid to know the , technical steps of how to become an astronaut right now. What's important is for him to have the vision or you know, , maybe if astronaut sounds too far-fetched, you know, maybe he wants to be a doctor. , So, and then if if he asks, okay, so I want to be a neurosurgeon. How do I become a neurosurgeon? What would you tell them? Well, you could give them a very rough outline. You could say, , "Okay, so if you really want to be a neurosurgeon, here's how it's going to work. You're going to go finish elementary school, then middle school. , Make sure you're doing good in your academics because when you get into high school, you really want to ace all your tests and take all the hard classes, get , a really good um uh portfolio and resume sort of going so that you can get accepted to a nice university. Go to the , best university you can. Do you know undergrad, get into medical school, do six, eight years of medical school, then , do your rounds as a doctor, then get an official position at a hospital, then maybe take some more classes and stuff and go to these seminars and learn this and read all the technical journals, , study all this stuff, learn all the medicine, learn all the surgery techniques, practice on cadaavvers and stuff, and then finally you become a , neurosurgeon. Uh, now there's even even that I mean that's helpful to know, , right? That's a broad outline, but that's still so generic. It's going to be hard for you to use that to really become a neurosurgeon. You ultimately , are going to have to figure out every single technical step, and there might be 10,000 technical steps for how to become a neurosurgeon. So, that's the same kind of um approach you want to take here with the how to become a sage. , Don't turn it into simplistic of a of a question. This is really what I want to be talking about for hundreds of hours , going forward with all my work and all my content is how to do this. I want to be sharing techniques and resources and uh intellectual understanding that you , need and um sharing stories of other sages and stuff that I'm doing in my life and so forth like so through that you will understand the how. Okay. , But what's more important than knowing the how is the vision. , Don't underestimate how powerful a strong juicy vision is for moving you towards something. If you , have a strong enough vision and you're committed to it, the how will solve itself. , People with a weak, wobbly vision need a lot of reassurance that the how , is practical and realistic and it'll actually work. They need a lot of guarantees. They need a one, two, , three-step formula for how to do everything. People with a strong vision will um motivate themselves and they will find a way and they are the ones , who are going to succeed. So, if you're serious about this, I encourage you to first start by working on deepening your vision for this, of why this is , important to you, what this could mean for your life, why you want this. , Consider all the other possible alternatives, and then drill it into your mind. , But let me give you a broad outline of the how anyways, because I know you're curious. , Uh firstly, you're going to want to set your top value as truth because that's fundamentally what a , mystic or a sage is about. Truth and understanding. , It's truth for truth's sake, not truth as a tool towards something. You see, , truth for truth sake. , You have to be curious, really curious about the truth, even at great cost and inconvenience to you. So that if you're presented with a choice like, , well, should I go out tonight and party with my friends and maybe get laid or should I sit home and maybe meditate to , find out what's true? You choose to meditate rather than go out and party with your friends and get laid. , The only way you can make that choice is when you really want truth rather than sex or fun or something else. See, , um, so that's important. Also, a radical turning inward, as I've said, is necessary. So this requires a rejection , of culture and society, freeing yourself of materialism, which is I mean you're you're kneede in materialism, maybe even , neck deep in materialism based off our modern culture and society. And you have to free yourself of all that in order to become a successful sage. And then , really what begins is the bulk of the work, which is the purification of your body, your mind, your emotions, and your habits. , the spiritual purification of your body, mind, emotions, and habits. , That's the bulk of spirituality, true spirituality. That's the bulk of consciousness work. , It's not having an enlightenment experience. Having a few enlightenment experiences is not the hard part. That's actually the easy part. , The hard part is then taking that insight or that understanding that you have during one of these in you know enignment experiences and then embodying , it and living it in your everyday life in your relationships in your career with your family with your children with , with your nutrition with your fitness with all this stuff right that is the process of spiritual , purification that takes decades takes decades and to really become a master of that is to become the sage to have mastered that process. , I mean it's an ongoing process. It'll continue for the rest of your life but after a few decades if you do it properly you will reach a point of mastery. You know 10,000 hour rule sort of thing. Well that applies here. , You're not going to do it with just one or two alignment experiences. You're not going to do it that way. , Also as you're radically turning inwards you're developing a strong energy body. , What does this mean? This is a super important concept which I'll cover separately in a I'll cover separately in another episode. But developing a strong , energy body basically means that you can take emotions that are sort of coming at you from the outside and then you can , you can take them and I'm especially talking about negative emotions here. , You take a strong negative emotion that's coming from the outside and you can alchemize it and convert it and just kind of like it moves through you as if , you were made out of like a cloud of gas. , You become imperturbable and impenetrable. , Not in the sense that you reject or deny emotions or that you're unemotional. No, , you've got plenty of emotions. You feel emotions more than most people do. But you have developed such a strong energy body that for example when someone says , something mean about you or someone unfairly does something he like like steals your , car or um you know hurts you in some way or maybe steals something from you or um , you know divorces you something like that that would really sting or someone close dies to you like a friend of yours dies that would really , sting but your energy body is so strong that you take that on and you can actually convert it, , transmute it into love and uh truth and you can embody and you can feed off of that. , That's one of the hallmarks of a true uh master in this domain is that they're able to do that. That really shows your , mastery because that's not something that happens on the level of understanding or intellect but that happens on the level of your entire body , and how energy flows through your whole body. I'll talk more about energy in the future. Uh also what's required is massive theoretical learning. , Osho, one of the sages on my list, uh, , is reported to have read over 150,000 books. , Sometimes you start to study about enlightenment and it's like, oh, , enlightenment, enlightenment tells us that thinking is wrong, thinking is bad, and all conceptual knowledge is false, all beliefs are false, it's not true, all of it is illusion, so books are stupid, I shouldn't read books anymore, , I shouldn't watch videos anymore, I shouldn't learn anymore. I should just sit and meditate. And that's the only truth. , Uh, this is a really misguided notion of non-duality. , That's not what true non-duality is about. OSHA has read over 150,000 books. , So, I think that um you could stand to benefit from reading a few more books. , In fact, you're not going to succeed at becoming a sage without having a very strong theoretical foundation of understanding what the path is, what the challenges are. you're going to have to , read and study biography and history and philosophy and psychology and this is I encourage you to to study and read and master all that because you want to , develop the biggest understanding possible. Um actually not even because it's necessary but because you as a sage , your top value is truth and understanding. So what you're after is you're after a deeper understanding. And you know what enlightenment doesn't , reveal everything to you. There's much more understanding to be had beyond enlightenment. , Uh, also you're going to need to seek uncommon knowledge to become a successful sage. , Uh, you're going have to sift through a lot of bullshit knowledge to find the really juicy tidbits. And that's what I've been doing lately. Over the last three years, I've been sifting through a , lot of stuff. A lot of it is great, but some of it, you know, isn't um that relevant to me becoming a sage. It's not the highest wisdom. And that requires a , sifting process. You know, thousands of hours of of listening and reading and note-taking and all this sort of stuff. This is necessary. , But the difference is that you're not doing it like an academic who's just like learning and filling his head with ideas and theories that are ungrounded. , But um the emphasis here is on application. So everything you're learning you're you're seeing how does this help me to master myself to raise , my consciousness to embody love and truth more in my own life. Also raising of awareness is going to be necessary. So, you need you're going to need a meditation habit, probably multiple meditation habits. You're going to learn many different meditation techniques, self-incquiry, , uh contemplation techniques. Uh you're going to be doing a lot of that. That's kind of your bread and butter as a sage. , And not just about what you are and who you are, but about many other things. , What life is, what people are, what animals are, what sentience is, what language is, what truth is, what , falsehood is, what illusion is, what society is, what politics is, what human beings are. These are all questions for , you to ponder for many many many many hours to get to the real bottom of them to really understand them. , Also exploring non-ordinary states of consciousness will be uh very important for the sage. This is one of the things that distinguishes a sage from an , academic or an intellectual. An academic or an intellectual is just operating on the same level of consciousness. It's just ordinary consciousness. He's just , filling ordinary consciousness with a bunch of facts and experiments, scientific experiments. , Uh that's leaving out the entire domain of non-ordinary states of consciousness. , Right? This is stuff you can experience through psychedelics, through special breathing techniques, , through meditation techniques, through contemplation techniques and so forth. However you want to do it, , it's important that you do do it so that you realize that this ordinary state of consciousness, this waking state of consciousness, that this is um , this is one of many, many, many different states of consciousness that are possible and not the highest by any means. , Also being creative is important I think for a sage listening to that muse inside of you and , then living that out and not just being someone who knows a bunch of stuff but who's creative who's using that to some positive benefit for the world however that will manifest for you you know whatever your favorite , method is and I have a whole course my life purpose course which specifically addresses How do you be uh creative in the way that's most meaningful to you and how do you turn that into a career? , That's a deep topic. , Also, to become a sage, you're going to have to be a big picture thinker, a holistic thinker. That's another thing that distinguishes a sage and a mystic, , let's say, from uh an academic or a scientist. An academic or scientist is concerned with one little narrow field , and they try to master that in a very technical way but they don't really connect that field to all the , neighboring fields and then to larger life. They don't really have a big working understanding of life, , just their little field. The opposite is true for the sage. , Also, you're going to need to develop uh unconditional love and compassion, indiscriminate love and compassion. , Compassion for human suffering. This is a very important thing. Otherwise, , you're not really a masterful sage. One of the things I heard on my forum um just today, someone put a a topic up there and said something like, "Oh, , yeah, you know, I've been pursuing this enlightenment stuff and raising my consciousness, and now I've realized it's all an illusion. It's all a fucking dream. Life is just a fucking illusion, , you know? Fuck this. Let it burn to hell. I don't care anymore. I don't give a shit. Now I just I'm just I'm walking around and being obnoxious to my family , because I don't give a shit about anything anymore. , No, no, no, no, no. That is a newbie trap on this path. That's not what I'm , talking about. That shows an utter lack of consciousness and a lack of selfmastery. , You can have a little bit of awareness, , but we're talking now to be a sage, you know, we're talking about orders of magnitude more awareness to the point where you really have deep compassion for the suffering of others. , You have a deep understanding for how all the aspects of life work and you don't get triggered by them. You don't get angry at them. , You don't criticize them. you're not ideological about them. , You're actually embodying and you're taking all of it in as you and you're developing um indiscriminate love for , reality. That's a very difficult thing to do. I hope you can appreciate how difficult that is. , It's going to take a lot more than a little bit of meditating or a few enlightenment experiences to get there. , And uh lastly, I would say to become a sage, you're going to probably want to help others raise their awareness as well. That's going to somehow figure , into your life purpose one way or another. Um but don't take that to mean just the very obvious ways in which , aware awareness can be raised. Like I'm not saying that you're going to have to now become a meditation teacher or a Zen master or a uh someone like me who you , know shoots videos for a living or something. No. Those are like the most obvious ways to help raise awareness. , There are millions of ways to raise awareness and to help people develop consciousness. , Uh you could do it in technology, you can do it in the medical field, you can do it in entertainment, you can do it with comedy, you can do it with art, you , can do it with science. Uh I mean there's no end to it. , In fact, one of the greatest challenges that we face in the 21st century is nowadays we have a lot of fields , from history to philosophy to science to medicine to politics to all this stuff to art. But there's a lot uh of lack of , consciousness in all these fields. Take a look any field. Give me any field and , I'll point out the huge gaping lag of consciousness in that field. From art to , entertainment to politics to science to history to all of it, right? , We are intellectually far more developed than we are spiritually or emotionally developed as human beings. And this might lead to the entire eradication of , the human race maybe or even the entire planet. Who knows? It can get pretty bad. So the the world is at a point , where we really need people to infuse all these different fields and careers and businesses with a lot of consciousness and awareness that presents opportunity for you. , So that's the broad outline of how to become a sage. Now that's the vision. Now this vision isn't for everybody. , Even though from my point of view, I think that if you forced people to become sages, , once they did become sages, they would look back and say, "Oh my god, I'm so glad that you forced me to become a sage , because my life is like incomparably better than it would have otherwise been no matter what I did." , But of course, you know, we can't do that. We don't want to really do that. , This is something that you have to want to do. You have to be excited about this. This has to be like a calling for you. And you know, I know that it's not for everybody. This is a narrowing of , actualize.org, a specialization of actualize.org, a niching, right? So, for those people who really want to become sages, you'll find some amazing content , here in the future. And for those who don't, you'll still find useful content, , but also it'll probably be uh a little less maybe practical than you were otherwise hoping for. then you might want to turn to some regular self-help advice, that sort of stuff. Um, , and that's fine. You know, different people have different desires, different values, different genetics, different , upbringing. So, we have to account that some people don't want to be sages. , But for those who do, I think that there's a lack of resources out there. , Wouldn't you agree? I mean, you don't like turn on the TV in the morning. It's like, hey, how to become a sage? Here's a commercial. Become a sage. just order , this product or go to the store and you'll become a sage. We'll show you how. No, right? It's unthinkable. It's , funny. It's unthinkable. And yet, that's what society should be like if you think about it. What's your society be? You're born and then it's like every fucking , thing you do. You go to the store, you go to the supermarket, you go meet your friends. Really, it should all be about like, here, let me help you to become a , sage. We should all be becoming sages together. That would be the most amazing life. But life doesn't work that way, does it? , Now, let me address a couple of uh questions and objections. So, one might be, Leo, but what about your life purpose course? So, you're talking about becoming a sage and it seems like this , is now better than the life purpose thing. What do I do with my life purpose? I just found my life purpose or I'm thinking about taking your course and now it seems like all that is called into question. No, not really. , Don't take becoming a sage or enlightenment as stopping you from having a life purpose. , That would be failing to really embrace the paradox of it. Yes, enlightenment tells you that there is no purpose to life and that it's an illusion. , But you know what? Take a look at the most enlightened people. They are also the most lifep purpose-driven people ever. , ever. Take a look at Buddha. Take a look at Jesus. Take a look at Gandhi. Take a look at um , Osho. You know, these people are very driven people, very passionate people. , Their life is their work and their work is their life. , So, here's what I would say to you if you're considering the life purpose course or if you're already taking it or if you already tooken it. , Here's how to reconcile this whole paradox. , The life purpose course is helping you to find your career and the way in which you want to be creative. That's a good thing. Find that. You don't want to be , enlightened working at a 7-Eleven. All right? Because that's otherwise what you'll have. You'll be enlightened at 7-Eleven. , Um, you don't want that. You want to be enlightened and doing creative artistic stuff that you love to do, , self-expressing and getting paid for it. , This vision I'm presenting to you here about becoming a sage, what this is about is sort of like your personal , purpose. So, think of it as having you have a career purpose then a personal purpose. your personal purpose is that even if you didn't work a day in your life ever again, , you would um still have the aim of becoming a sage and self-actualizing and selfmastery basically. , But given that you probably will be working for thousands and thousands of hours in your life, you probably want to make that work nice and meaningful to , you rather than just working at a 7-Eleven. So if you want to do that, well, check out the life purpose course. , That's what that's for, right? So there's no real contradiction here. The contradiction is on the surface. , Believe it or not, it's possible that all of life is an illusion, but you still have a purpose because you create , the purpose. The purpose is not something that's inherently true. The purpose is something you construct. , Okay? It's a construction. Now, just because it's a construction doesn't mean it shouldn't be constructed. If it if , it, you know, floats your boat, if it tickles you, if you enjoy it, then do it. That's all the reason you need. It , doesn't need to be true in some sort of existential sense for you to do it. , The next objection is, "But Leo, all of this is an illusion. This is an illusion. So how can you be talking about becoming a sage? Isn't that all just illusion? More illusion?" , enlightment tells us that all this stuff is illusory. , We shouldn't be pursuing spirituality like this because that's just part of the ego's thing. You know, it's the spiritual ego. No, , don't get this wrong. Don't get this wrong. , To master yourself, , to become fully conscious of everything that's possible is truth. , To become a sage or a mystic, you need to take this enterprise very fucking seriously. This is not a joke. , The people who are the most advanced sages and mystics, they have devoted their entire lives to this. And you think they did this what? On a fucking whim? You think they just said, "Oh, , it's just, yeah, it's all an illusion, , so I'm just going to sit back and do what? I'm going to fucking eat Oreos while watching cartoons." You think that that's what they did? No. They were very , fucking serious about it. against one of the paradoxes of it, right? Is that you're very fucking serious about selfmastery even though you realize that , it actually in a sense is part of the illusion. But you need that. You need a temporary objective, right? Your , objectives will change on this path a lot. But you need something to get you motivated and inspired in the first place. , Cuz without this vision, what are you going to do? I'll tell you what you're going to do. You're going to do nothing. , You're going to do exactly what you've been fucking doing for the last 20 years of your life, which is basically just pissing your life away, , biddling around with your family, your friends, and your co-workers, doing bullshit work, eating bullshit food, , watching bullshit media and entertainment, and contributing to a bullshit culture. That's what you're going to get if you don't take some radical action. , So if you have to use a little bit of illusion to combat the greater illusion, , then fucking do it. Yeah, you're in the matrix. , And now you're starting to change the matrix. , That's what great sages have always done. , Even though while they do that they realize that the matrix is the matrix and that ultimately , doesn't really matter one way or another. , And yet they still have this sense of purpose and they are still very goal oriented about their spirituality. , That's important not to get wrong because otherwise you're not going anywhere. You're going to have what you have now. and you ain't going to be , spiritual. You're going to be fucking materialistic and very unwise and you're going to suffer for it. , All right, so that's my ranting about that. Now, uh let me sum up by just um , talking about what all this means for actualize.org content going, you know, , forward in the future. So, here's what it means. It means deeper topics. It means meta topics, , topics about topics, topics about how to learn, topics about how to understand, , topic, topics about how to think. It means bigger picture thinking topics. It means um , connecting more diverse dots. What I really want.org to be is uh to bring in many perspectives from many different fields, not just traditional self-help. , I want to bring in philosophy, history, science, u and all this other kind of stuff, , right? There's so many interesting fields to bring in. I really want to take a look more at personal growth from a historical perspective. I think , there's a lot to learn there. Uh it's going to be um this is going to mean that the topics are going to be more abstract and more philosophical in , nature and on the surface it'll seem less practical. There's going to be less handholding, , less of me saying, "Okay, now you should do A, B, C, D, E, FG, and now you got your result." Less of that because , that's the trade-off. When the topics are bigger picture, they're more abstract. There's less room and time for handholding. That means more initiative , and intelligence and effort is required on your part to then take the abstract stuff, to get the understanding from it, , and then to piece together a plan for how to enact it and embody it in your life. , It also means more focus on understanding. Me teaching you understanding versus me teaching you success. , Most self-help focuses on teaching you success because that's what sells results in success. , But understanding is more powerful because when you have understanding now you have the flexibility to create or manipulate reality in whatever way you , want. Whereas if all you're after is success, you can get success in a limited field, but then eh, you're still , not fulfilled by it. You're still really chasing your own tail in life. You still don't see the bigger picture of reality and why fulfillment doesn't come from , success. You're still stuck in materialism. You haven't really turned inward. , It also means a longer time horizon is required from you. Which means you can't think of the self-actualization thing as , like, oh yeah, I'll do it for a few weeks or three months, I'll get some results and then that's it. No, no, no. , It's like I'm investing 10, 20 years into the future by putting in the labor, , the time, the investment, reading the books, going to seminars, meditating, doing all this stuff. You know, you got to have a long time horizon here. You're making a big investment to get a big payoff, but not next year, but maybe in five or 10 years. , That requires wisdom on your part. , Because most people, the way they invest is a stupid sort of investment. It's like, I'll invest now only if I'm guaranteed a return tomorrow. And with , that kind of investing strategy, you're never going to uh earn a lot. , Also, this means that topics will be more spiritually oriented, less materialistically oriented. Of course, , they're going to be more advanced and more nuanced, less mainstream and more niche. , Now, um, don't get too excited or too worried because this is not going to change overnight. , I'm kind of outlining a plan. Again, I have a long time horizon for what I want to do with actualize.org. So this will , be a gradual transition that you will see me making over the next 6 months, over the next 12 months because honestly in my life, I mean becoming a sage is what there's like there's no , alternative. What's the fucking alternative? What else are you going to do? Name me one other thing that's more worthwhile to do with your life. , What I'm at the point where I've studied enough stuff, I've seen enough stuff. I understand psychology enough that I can , see that there's no really um better alternative. , So this is the way it has to be for me and for my content, right? And my content has to be a reflection of of , what I know and what I'm studying myself. Cuz honestly, there's shit that I could talk about that I would have talked about a year or even two years , ago. I could have talked about some topic, but I can't talk about it anymore. It's like still on my to-do list, but now I have to cross it off and not talk about it because it's like I've , outgrown that. There's like bigger things that have come to the forefront because I've put many of the puzzle pieces together. I can kind of get a sense of the big picture of what's happening here, right? And I'm excited to help you to get that kind of big , picture yourself so that you don't need me or anybody else telling you what to do. So that you're self-sufficient and you can sort of figure this stuff out for yourself. , You know how to learn. You know how to learn how to learn all this stuff that you don't know to figure this out and to become a sage. , All right, that's it. I'm signing off. , If you like this idea, post me a comment down below um with whether you want to take this on as a vision. I'm still testing the waters here. I don't really , know how many of you are into becoming sages or not. Maybe this is something that's like nobody fucking wants this. , And then maybe I'll have to change my mind about it. But I think we'll give this a shot. So yeah, uh click the like button for me. Post your comments down below. Share this episode with a friend , and uh come check out actualize.org right here, my website. Sign up to the newsletter. Stay tuned for more videos in the future about how to become a sage. And we're going to really break it down into many, many interesting um really profound , insights about how life works, how reality works, your role in all that. , and then how to master yourself so that you can get the most juice out of life. , All right, stay tuned for more and I'll see you soon.
