---
title: "Transcript: How To Stop Judging Yourself"
search:
  exclude: true
---

# Transcript: How To Stop Judging Yourself

**YouTube:** [Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ulam38XpQG4)

---

Hey, this is Leo for actualized.org and in this episode I'm going to talk about how to stop judging yourself and I'm going to show you a powerful exercise to help you do exactly this. [Music] I feel a bit of a cold coming on, so bear with me as I try to push through it. Anyways, on to the main topic. Judgments. Judgments. Judgments. Judgments. The problem with judgments is that judgments are poisoning your life. And as usual, which should now be becoming an apparent theme through all the actualized.org content, is that you're usually not aware of how this mechanism works. You're not aware of how judgments backfire on you. How when you judge others, in a sense, you're also judging yourself at the same time. And in fact, that's the profound insight that I want to uh hammer home at you today is just this one simple idea that judgments that you make about others always apply to you. And it doesn't seem this way at first. So what I want to do is I want to illustrate this point with a assortment of examples, common examples that I think that a lot of us have run into. But the idea is very simple. Every time you make a judgment about somebody else, their physical appearance or their behavior or their belief systems or anything else, you're basically also judging yourself at the same time and you're making life for you very difficult in the future. So how does this work? Well, let's take example number one, which is judging fat people. Maybe you're one of these people that actually values his or her health, and so you go to the gym and you work out and eat healthy. Okay? But then you judge fat people as they're walking down the street. And maybe you see a really obese person, you're like, "Oh man, that's just a fat slob right there." And maybe even sometimes you and your friends kind of laugh at this fat person cuz you are all into fitness stuff and you're all into eating healthy and going to the gym and working out real hard. Okay, fair enough. But here's the problem with this. You might wonder, well, Leo, how does this backfire on me? I mean, I'm fit. I have a good, well- toned body and I take care of my health, so it's not backfiring on me, right? I mean, I'm vigilant about my health. except it does backfire on you. Let's just take one example. Let's say you go to your parents over the holidays and you go to visit them for Thanksgiving and Christmas and it's a big feast and everyone's eating over there and stuff like that, right? Turkey, mashed potatoes, everything. The whole works. So, what happens? Well, you start to indulge in that a little bit. You fall off your healthy diet for a while and you start to put on maybe an inch or two around your waist. All of a sudden, your belt's getting a little tight. You have to loosen up the notch by one. Okay, but what happens? It's not just that that happens. The problem with that is that you now start to feel guilt and you start to feel bad. Why do you feel bad? You feel a little bit of shameful. Why? Because you've been judging fat people for years. And now, of course, you're not fat. But even as you begin to even just creep towards fatness, you just put on an extra inch or two of fat. All of a sudden, you get neurotic about it. You start going crazy about it. It drives you nuts. Right now, all of a sudden, it's like, "Okay, I got to get back into the gym, hit it really hard, got to browbeat myself, got to flagagillate myself to stay healthy and fit." And so your whole fitness routine then becomes this kind of like avoidance and escape of coming under the um under the effect of your own past judgments around fat people which is a terrible source of motivation for going to the gym. So that's one example right one example and that's just one facet of how this could manifest sometime in the future. Let's say you get a girlfriend and now your girlfriend, she starts to put on a few pounds. This is years later. But see, you can't help the fact that you've been judging fat people. So now she's putting on weight. You start to see her as fat. Now all of a sudden it starts to bother you, starts to worry you. You want to tell her, but you don't want to offend her. What do you do? Creates a whole problem for you, right? Maybe you break up with her because of that. Maybe it creates a huge argument for you guys. And it's just like a a simple little thing. I'm not saying that she just, you know, turned into a whale all of a sudden. I'm saying she just put on a few pounds, but it still bothers you and you don't know how to deal with it effectively. So, that's example number one. Here's another example that I want to site, and this one's for the ladies. Ladies love to do this. What ladies love to do is they love to judge other hot ladies. So, if you're a lady, you know what I'm talking about. you have a friend or a friend of a friend or some girl that you've seen that's really hot and what you do or you know if you see your guy looking at a hot girl in your mind what you do is you call that hot girl you call her a hot slut. She's not just a girl. She's not a lady. She's a slut. She's a whore. She's a little uh skank, right? Because she's that model looking type. She's probably a skank. You're thinking to yourself. So this is how you judge these types of women. And maybe you've been judging these types of women ever since your mother was judging these types of women when you were just a teenager, still back in middle school or in high school, and she told you, "Don't be a slut like those girls on the magazines or those girls in the movies." And so, of course, now you judge the way your mother judged. And so, the problem with this, though, you might say, "Well, Leo, I'm not a slut." So, what's the problem? Here's the problem is that let's say now you find yourself a new boyfriend and you're uh you're in love with him and everything's going great and now you're in the bedroom with him, right? And you're going to have sex, but now you're feeling guilty and conflicted and repressed in the bedroom. You can't orgasm properly. You can't have multiple orgasms. Why not? Well, because and it's just one factor, but one factor could be that the reason you can't is because you've been so judgmental about other people having sex that when it comes to you having sex now, you feel inongruent if you fully let yourself go. So, of course, you do still have sex, but the kind of sex you have is this kind of like lame mechanical sex, not the really good kind of sex. And maybe you don't orgasm, or if you orgasm, you have a weak single orgasm. You don't multiple orgasm. You don't have wild crazy orgasms like you could. And you're in conflict with yourself. You feel guilty. You're not able to kind of like let yourself go the way you should, the way you want to. Why? Because you've been judging other people your whole life for doing that. And now your self-image, because your self-image needs to maintain integrity. Um, it needs to apply the same rules that you used on others to yourself. And now is when it comes back to bite you in the ass. Here's another example. Have you ever r uh have you ever judged rich people? Like you see somebody driving a Mercedes or a Ferrari or something down the street or sitting there in a restaurant, fancy restaurant with a Rolex as you're walking by on the street corner and you think to yourself, "Oh man, that's such a rich douchebag. Look at that rich douchebag sitting there eating his rich lunch with his rich girlfriend and his rich car and his rich Rolex watch and all this stupid stuff. He I bet you he's a some Wall Street broker type of guy who swindled some old grand lady out of her retirement savings and now he's sitting there and he's uh whining and dining his girlfriend on that money. So you come up with that kind of story, right? And you do that over and over over again. Maybe you grew up in kind of a middle class family where your parents made these kind of judgments about rich people. And they told you, "Hey, rich people don't care about middle class people. They don't care about poor people. They step on people. They use us." And of course, that that kind of um judgmental attitude was also reinforced by your friends who were also probably lower middle class. And so now you're an adult. And here's where it backfires on you. Now maybe you're thinking about starting your own business or maybe you already have a business and now your business starts doing good. You start to earn a lot of money but of course now there's this in congruence within you because you're starting to become rich just like those people. But your mind didn't make the space for a nice rich person. It automatically classified all rich people as douchebags. And so now you're falling under your own judgment. And it might go to the point where now you you actually sabotage your own business. Or maybe if you consider going to business, then you let go of that dream. You say, "Yeah, you know what? If I went into business, I would just be one of those rich douchebags. So even if I succeeded, I would basically be a failure and my parents wouldn't really respect me because I'd just be like one of those rich douchebags." Now, here's the thing you got to understand about this is that this happens all very subconsciously. You're not aware this is happening. It's not clear to you in your mind that when you sabotage your own business or you sabotage your own relationship or you sabotage your own gym routine or something like this that this is coming from a judgment that you made 5, 10, 20 years earlier. That connection isn't made clear. So, you know, you got to do the dot connecting. You got to connect all the dots to start to see this stuff. It's very subtle. It can be. Let me give you another example. How about the um judging newbies? I love this example. Maybe you're at the gym with your friends and you guys have been going to the gym for the last 10 years and you're all experts. You've studied all the uh fitness routines. You know exactly which exercises to do and all the right fitness moves and stuff, right? But then after the New Year's crowd comes in every January, these are all, you know, fresh green horns who've never been to the gym before. And of course, what do you do if you're a regular gym goer? You're laughing and snickering and you're ridiculing with your buddies, all the newbies that come through the door and get on the treadmill or they start doing some stupid exercise routine that you think is ridiculous that is completely against all the, you know, all the the rules and all the norms and they don't know which weights to use or how to use them properly. So, as they're doing that, you and your guys, your buddies are watching, you're watching this newbie doing his thing, his newbie thing, and you're watching him kind of like fail and self-destruct, but you're laughing and ridiculing. But actually, what you're doing as you're laughing and ridiculing is you're judging him. Now, how does this come back to bite you in the ass? Well, let's say you want to go learn some new hobby, like you want to take up golf, and you you're totally new to golf. So, now you're going to go golfing and swing at the driving range. So, you go there and you think you're going to be all cool. You pull out your club and you swing. And guess what? You make a fool of yourself because you miss. You can't even hit the ball on your first swing. And you suddenly feel very, very stupid. And you feel very, very self-conscious cuz you're standing there and you're feeling like all the expert golfers, all the pros are standing around you and they're watching you and they're laughing at you. Now, maybe they aren't or maybe they are, but the fact is that you're very self-conscious about it. And in fact, what might happen is that you go for a week to the driving range and each time you're so frustrated with how poor you're doing and you feel like you're a total noob and that you look ridiculous that a week later you just quit the whole thing and you say, "You know what? That golf thing is just so stupid. This is for rich people anyways. Screw that golf stuff. I'm just going to go back to the gym and stick to what I know how to do best." And so in this way, you deny yourself some new opportunity in life. And you know, golf, business, relationship, it doesn't matter what it is, right? This newbie judging is a is a really good example. You see it all over the internet, too. You see people doing this because, you know, it's really easy to judge newbies. Really easy to to criticize them, laugh at them at their expense, but then inevitably comes back to bite you. Now, those are some examples of like negative judgments. I want to give you an example of a positive judgment because not all judgments are seemingly negative. You might wonder, well, Leo, is it okay to make positive judgments? It's still a problem. Here's why. Let's say you have a guy at the office who you perceive as being really charismatic and charming and just flirtatious and he's funny and he's got a great sense of humor, really outgoing and extroverted. And so you you see this guy, you're really, you know, attracted by his personality. You're like, "Oh man, this guy's amazing. You're amazing." And now you start to feel like you're inadequate because you judged him as being up here and you judged yourself as being down here. Maybe you're a little bit more shy, reserved, more introverted, and you want to feel like you're more extroverted and more charming and you don't know like you you don't know how to develop that sense of humor that he has. It seems so effortless for him. And so now what happens is that 5 years later after you've made this judgment of him being such a charming great person is you're still interacting with other people in your office or in a different company now or wherever and you're still feeling inadequate because you're comparing yourself to him. The judgment you created back then is still being applied to you now. In a sense, judging is like creating a law or a rule which then your mind stores and then that law or rule of course gets applied to all future situations because your mind tries to stay consistent, tries to maintain integrity with itself. So if you judge a fat person here, then if you ever become fat, you're going to be judging yourself. If you judge a slutty person over there, if you ever do anything slutty, you're going to be judging yourself. If you judge rich people, anytime you make a little extra money, you're going to be judging yourself. You're going to feel guilt. You're going to feel shame. You're going to feel inadequacy or some other kind of like low consciousness nasty type of emotion. Um, another good example that I like is uh those pan handlers on the street. You ever seen some of those bums, those dirty bums on the street? It's really easy to judge those guys, right? So, they're standing on the street begging you for a quarter. And of course, you know, sometimes you give them a quarter, but sometimes you don't. And in fact, you say something like, "Man, look at this guy. Why doesn't he just like clean himself up and go get a job at McDonald's, at least he could earn more money than just standing here like a pathetic slob? I bet this guy's lazy. He's such a lazy bum." And then every time you see a bum, you call him lazy. Now, five years later, it backfires on you. How does it backfire on you? Because let's say you're working on some project in your business and uh maybe your partner tells you, "Hey man, you've been slacking, you're lazy, and all of a sudden now you start to get kind of frantic and neurotic and even though you're working 50 or 60 hours a week, just because your business partner called you lazy, you didn't take it as a joke. you actually took it seriously and now you're like,"Well, shit, I should work even harder." He's right. I should work 80 hours a week. And so what you do is you kill yourself for the next three years working 80 hours a week. burn yourself out, make yourself sick, um deny yourself, um the other pleasures of life, uh estrange yourself from your family, and maybe your relationship goes bad, maybe your marriage gets uh a divorced and um and all of that simply because you were reacting against your judgment of not wanting to be lazy because you call those people lazy. And of course that's a a rule that you created in your mind which said lazy is bad. Which of course means that anytime I get even close to lazy or I even inch my way towards lazy I'm all of a sudden bad. Creates a lot of problems. And the last example I want to give you is the u the unloving mother example which is a really great one that I love. Let's say that in this example, you're the woman and you were a girl and you grew up with a mother that didn't give you a lot of affection, criticize you all the time, wasn't loving enough, and this really hurt you, and you had a really kind of like troublesome teenage um years, and because you feel like you weren't getting enough love. So, you judge that as bad. And then you told yourself, you know what? When I have kids, I'm going to be the most loving mother ever cuz my mother was a selfish bitch and I'm not going to be that way with my kids. And that seems like a very positive rule to make in your mind, right? Be be more loving. Be more selfless. How great is that? What could possibly go wrong? Well, except 20 years later when you do have your own kids, what happens? Well, now you need to play that role of the selfless mother. And so now you sacrifice yourself for your kids. Your kids walk all over you. You do everything for your kids. You don't take any time for yourself. You don't take care of your health. You don't take care of um your psychological needs. So you grow fat and you go psychologically neurotic slowly over the years as you're sacrificing yourself to your kids. And your kids become more and more ungrateful little brats. And then uh the same thing now happens with your husband as well and your whole family situation just goes to hell and maybe eventually you get a divorce and you grow sick with cancer. Why does all this happen? Well, I'm not saying this is the only cause, but one possible cause for why some something like this could happen is because you set down this law very early in your childhood that told you, "I will never be selfish like my mother. I will never be unloving like her. Even though, you know what, sometimes it's okay to be selfish. Sometimes you need that. Sometimes you need to take a vacation. Sometimes you need to do something for yourself at the expense of your kids. And that can be normal and healthy. But you don't allow yourself to do that because you've just been so harsh and judgmental on your mother about that. And for you now to go back on your old promises and your old laws and rules, well, that means you have to change how your whole mind works. And notice that in this example, you would not be aware of how all this stuff is happening. You'd be having problems in your family and with your kids, but you wouldn't know why it's happening. You would never connect the dots all the way back to some innocent seeming little judgment that you made 20 years ago. So just notice how subtle it can be. Those are just some examples. It's just the tip of the iceberg. I just wanted to use these examples to kind of get your mind jogging and to start to connect the dots in your own life. For you, these examples might be totally different than what I talked about here. Get kind of creative. Start thinking, how is this working in my life? Fundamentally, the problem here in all these examples is that you're disowning a part of reality. You're creating these rigid rules by which now you have to live. And whenever you break one of these rules, and these rules, by the way, they're very arbitrary. Totally arbitrary. That now you feel like, well, shit, I can't break these rules. I have to live by all these. I have to jump through all these hoops. I have to be the perfect person. I have to stay consistent with all my past judgments. I can't admit that I was wrong. And so because of this, you block off a lot of avenues within reality. Now you can't take a vacation. Now you can't be a little bit lazy. Now you can't be rich. Now you can't be a newbie at something. Now you can't be sexual. Now you can't gain a little bit of weight. And so on and so on and so on. And what this does is it makes you inflexible in life. You're not able to flow with the circumstances of life. You're not able to be spontaneous in life. And this creates problems for you. creates guilt, creates shame, and largely you don't know this is going on. It's just going on to you. It feels like, man, my life feels miserable. Why do I feel guilty all the time? Why do I feel shameful all the time? Why do I feel unsatisfied all the time? Why do I feel like I can't do anything right all the time? Why do I keep self-sabotaging? Every relationship, every new business, every new hobby that I start just doesn't seem to work for me. Well, maybe it's because you made some judgments that are holding you back and that have just backfired on you again and again and again. Here's one of my personal biggest insights that I've had this year from doing a lot of enlightenment work and consciousness work in workshops. One of the biggest insights I had was this was that the reason that I've been a people pleaser for most of my life until recently is uh because and I traced this back into my past is I recognize that oh I used to judge my dad for being inconsiderate towards other people what I perceived as inconsiderate and I kind of thought of him as a jerk and I said to myself you know what when I grow up I don't want to be that kind of man I don't want to be the jerk I don't want to be the inconsiderate one. I want to be the kind, the nice one. And so that sealed my fate. Now, whenever I interacted with people for decades after making that judgment, I would always try to be the nice one because I would subconsciously be running away from that negative ideal that my dad said. And I didn't just judge my dad as being inconsiderate. I also judge other people as being inconsiderate. So it was a combination of various judgments but basically that created this kind of a peopleleasing uh personality profile for me and it just kind of fired and fired and fired and I didn't know why it was happening. Only years later, after lots and lots and lots of consciousness work, did I finally stumble upon by accident. This um discovery that oh, of course, I made that judgment when I was real young and it's hung around with me and stuck around for for decades and I've been paying the price and I didn't know what was going on there. Because you know what? Sometimes in life you got to be inconsiderate. You might wonder like, "Well, Leo, yeah, of course you don't want to be inconsiderate. What's wrong with that law? What's wrong with that judgment?" But the fact is that sometimes you are inconsiderate in life. Sometimes you do have to be a dick. Sometimes you can't help it. Especially like in business or in some kind of negotiation situation or in a relationship where you have to break off the relationship when you know it's good for both of you to break it off but you don't because you're just so used to being a people pleaser and you don't want to disappoint somebody or be perceived as a jerk, right? You need that flexibility and I denied that to myself. So that created some problems for me. All right. So, how do we get you to recognize this kind of stuff for yourself, these kind of deep insights? Well, I got a great exercise for you, which is actually the exercise that I use to discover this insight for myself. So, here it is. You're going to take out a couple sheets of paper and a pen. Do that right now. You're going to do two things with this paper and pen. Firstly, you're going to write out every single judgment that you've ever made about other people. You're going to make a giant long list. It might be a hundred or 300 items on this list. Second thing you're going to do is you're going to write out every judgment you ever made about yourself. And again, this will be another list, separate list with another 100 to 300 different items. There could be a lot. And the key as you're doing this is that you want to do a kind of a stream of consciousness where you get in the flow and you just let it pour out of you. might take you 30 minutes to sit there and just let this list pour out without any filtering. So the most evil, vile, harshest judgments you've ever made, write all those down. It's very important. Also, make sure that you include the positive judgments, too, not just the negative ones. So, if you judge somebody a dick, you put that one on there. And if you judge someone a princess, you put that one on there. And then after you're done with both these lists, then what you're going to do is you're going to put a star or a check mark next to those judgments on the list that you feel have a strong potential to backfire on you or to create neurotic patterns in your life. How do you know which ones to select? Well, they'll kind of just jump out at you. For example, when I came up with the judgment, he's an inconsiderate dick, it's like, oh yeah, I know that I always behave in a way where I try to minimize my own inconsiderateness. And if I ever think of myself as inconsiderate, then I really feel bad and shameful. Oh, that's an important one. All right, so that's how you're going to find out. Now, what I want to do is I want to actually demonstrate for you how this exercise works because it's a little shocking when you hear it and you see it done in person. So, what I'm going to do is I've got my timer here and I have it set for 5 minutes. I'm going to set this timer and I'm going to give you the first list, which is all the judgments that I've ever made about other people. And you're going to hear me go into a stream of consciousness and I'm just going to not filter myself at all and just talk for 5 minutes straight and say whatever comes up to my mind for these judgments. All right, let's begin. I got five minutes on the clock. Go. All right. So every judgment that I've ever made about other people, asshole, prick, inconsiderate, ungrateful, thief, cheat, ugly, smelly, disgusting, foolish, beautiful, attractive, hot, sexy, Handsome, cute, adorable, fat, pig, nigger, hippie, hipster, douchebag, scumbag, bastard, bitch. Deceitful, criminal, neglectful, cold, violent, uncaring, ignorant, stupid, low consciousness, neurotic, dysfunctional, Crazy. Insane. Weird. Odd. Not normal. Normal. Cool. Uncool. Hip. Rich. Poor. Lazy, careless, ignorant, dogmatic, closed-minded, religious, ideological, rationalist, myopic, Arrogant, egotistical, selfish, narcissistic, selfless, caring, kind, loving, humble, brilliant, creative genius, strong, weak, skinny, ugly teeth, ugly face. Ugly nose. Camel nose. Slut. Whore. Skank player. Womanizer. Immature. Juvenile. Ridiculous. Embarrassing, greedy, corrupt, shameful, evil. bad human being. Disgusting human being. I would never fuck that. Humorous, charming, confident, insecure, needy, codependent, nerd, geek, dweeb, pale, pasty, scrawny, masculine. feminine, girly, manly, hairy. Okay, so that was my first list. Now I'm going to do the second list, which is all the judgments that I've ever made about myself. Again, completely unfiltered. Whatever comes to mind. Five minutes on the clock. Go. Right. Every judgment I've ever made about myself, arrogant, egotistical, humble, reserved, introverted, extroverted, tall, skinny, lanky, effeminite, masculine, assertive, lacking assertiveness. indecisive, smart, intelligent, wise, wise beyond my years, creative, artistic, brilliant, inadequate, less than others, shy, lacking confidence, lacking assertiveness. People pleaser. Pushover. Bald. Ugly. Funny teeth. Buck tooth. Big nose. Small dick. Fat. Skinny. Handsome. Nice eyes. Effeminate. Not manly enough. Not masculine enough. Grounded. Secure. Also insecure. Ambitious. Hardworking. Disciplined. Lazy, successful, upper middle class, cheat, thief, liar, honest, truthful, coward. Good student, kind, caring, player, jerk, asshole, mean, inconsiderate, manipulative, scheming, plotting, disloyal, inauthentic, also authentic. Small jaw. Wannabe. Humorous. Bad sense of humor. Awkward. Weird. Above average, superior. Better than other people. Right. Good. Bad. Perfectionist. Workaholic. Non-drinker. Smug. Condescending. Intellectual. Nerdy, different, exceptional, hardworking. Neurotic, hypocritical, complex, deep racist womanizer. There. All right, that was my second list. So hopefully that opened your eyes to the possibilities here. I want you to create the same exact kind of list except your list is not going to be limited to 5 minutes, but it's going to be much longer. Get everything out of your system. All right? Get it all out of your system. No filters. This is not the time to be nice or polite or politically correct. So, that's your exercise. That's your assignment. Now, to just um recap this topic, we started off asking the question, how do you stop judging yourself? Well, one way that you stop judging yourself is basically this is the answer in a nutshell is that you stop judging other people. You cannot stop judging yourself if you continue to judge other people. Hopefully, you can now see the dynamic where this is a double-edged sword. It cuts both ways. It cuts forward and it cuts backwards. So, be very careful. And you might wonder, well, how do I stop judging other people, Leo? And here's my answer to that. First of all, be mindful of how you judge other people. Judgments are usually much more subtle than we think. It's usually not as black and white as, "Oh, she's fat," or, "Oh, he's an asshole." I mean, those are very obvious. Also, be very mindful of the jokes you make with your friends, with your circle of friends, how you like to make jokes about others at the expense of others. And in that case, you're judging them. Be very careful about that. Just be more mindful of how often you do judge people. You do it a lot more often than you think. And this takes a period of increased awareness to start to see this. Also, be more mindful of how your jud your judgments are damaging you. So, you can see how they're damaging other people, but then see the second side of the blade pointing back at you, right? When you slice with it. So, this is what we mean by double-edged sword. So notice, for example, that when you judge fat people, that makes you insecure about your own weight. Notice that when you judge rich people, that creates a problem for you with money. Notice that when you judge slutty people, that creates a problem for you in the bedroom with sexuality. Notice these things, right? Notice the actual limits kind of the the cage that you construct around yourself. Notice that. Again, that takes a period of mindfulness. takes a while to see that. And you know, to jump start you and to help you to do that right now, do the exercise, create both of these lists, sit down, really think about it. After you do the exercise, what you'll notice for the next week or so, you'll be walking around town with your friends and all this kind of stuff. You're going to be more mindful automatically to the different judgments you make. And then you can go deeper with it and you can take a look at those judgments that you put a star next to, the ones that already, you know, are backfiring on you and you can work on those even deeper. And I don't really have time to go into that. I'll probably cover that in some other episode, but that's it for now. So, practice the mindfulness, see what's really going on, how you're using these judgments against yourself, and do this exercise. All right, that's it. I'm signing off. Please click the like button for me. Help support ash.org by leaving your feedback there. Also, post your comments down below. I do like to read them. Um, share the video with a friend if you would. And lastly, come check out actualize.org. This is my website. I have cool stuff on there. You can download MP3 versions of the videos. There's a newsletter you can sign up to. It's a free newsletter. Keeps you on track with your personal development. There's some courses. There's a great book list. All these different resources. And I'm committed to adding more resource more resources there over time to help you to really get a handle on your self-actualization. And the most important thing is that you stay tuned, right? Sign up to the newsletter. It's a free newsletter. The way it's going to work is that you're going to get excited about this stuff. You're going to do it for a little while for a couple of months. Then you're going to fall off track and you're going to forget. And then a year later, when you're in a funk or you're getting crappy results in your relationship or you're depressed or you're miserable or you have a money problem or something, you know what? Um, if you're signed up to the newsletter, you're going to get an email from me and it's going to be like, "Oh, this new video could help me." And then you watch that new video and it gets you out of your funk and puts you back on track, reminds you that you should be doing this work on a weekly basis. The reason you should be doing this work on a weekly basis, doing all these exercises I tell you to do, taking the action steps I tell you to do, learning the theory that I share with you, is because it will transform your whole life. And it doesn't take that long. just a couple of years of doing this consistently, you're going to see huge, huge results. And that's just the start of the kind of results you could see if you do this for 5, 10, 20 years. Man, your whole life is going to take on a whole new trajectory if you do. So, it's a powerful thing. It's a real powerful. Try it out. Some of the ideas that I share with you are ideas that cost me thousands of dollars and hundreds of hours of my own time researching and picking up from the smartest people that I know and from some of the, you know, worldclass experts that I go to for my information. I spend hundreds of hours every week studying all this stuff and trying to deliver it to you in an easy to understand way. So, it's really worth your time, I think, to uh stay on board. Anyhow, if you're on board with that idea, then go sign up to the newsletter. Stay tuned and I'll see you in the next one.
