---
title: "Transcript: Personal Development Blueprint - Meditation"
search:
  exclude: true
---

# Transcript: Personal Development Blueprint - Meditation

**YouTube:** [Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y7DXX6_RBz8)

---

Hey, this is Leo for actualized.org and here we're continuing on with my blueprint series, which is over 100 of the greatest personal development concepts of all time that can be found at actualize.org/b blueprint. And the concept that we're covering here is meditation. All right. So, I want to actually make this really simple because meditation is a simple thing. But first, let's talk about before we get into the specifics of how to do meditation, we're going to talk about what this is as a concept for personal development and then why it's important. So, it's a concept for personal development. Why is meditation uh important and what is it? What is it? It simply means that you make a practice daily. I'm underlining and stressing the word daily of sitting down in a chair or wherever you want to sit down for , closing your eyes or maybe even opening your eyes, leaving them open, and just clearing your mind , of everything and sitting in silence for . That's it. That's all it is. , But beyond what meditation is is the really important aspect is that this is a habit. This is not a thing that you do once. And we're going to get into that a , little bit more in the body. Now, as for why it's important, I think meditation is really, really important for human beings, for every human being. Because , what it does is it helps us cope with all the stressors in our lives. And there's multiple benefits to doing , meditation and all of them have been very well documented scientifically. , also anecdotally and throughout millennia of of practice by humans from , from the ancient east uh and now into the west doesn't really matter. Here's what meditation will do for you. Number one, it's going to eliminate a lot of , stress. It's going to make you much more calm and peaceful. And when you're are when you are calm and peaceful, that's a position that you can make much better , decisions from. That's a position that you can act powerfully from. That's a position that you can create an amazing life from. You can't do that when you're , always stressed and bogged down with the pettiness of life. So, there's that. It also eliminates those ants, those , automatic negative thoughts that we always have, right? Um, whenever you're having a neg one of those negative thought spirals where you just say like, , "Oh, well, he did that to me and she did this to me and I'm going to tell him this and she's going to say that." And you have this whole concocted argument , in your head going on and you worry about your business collapsing or your career not working out or dropping off , your weight loss plan or just any number of things that you can be worried about that is ruining the quality of your , life. But even beyond that, it's also ruining the performance of your life. , You're not going to you're going to be living a very mediocre life if you're always bogged down in automatic negative thoughts. And meditation is a really good way to uh to unhook yourself from , that. It also unhooks you from stimulation because we're always so overstimulated by the environment. We're stimulated by food. We're stimulated by , TV. We're stimulated by by hanging out with people. We're over stimulated at work and by our computers. , And we never just take the time to just kind of calm down and be happy in the moment. , When you do a lot of meditation, you end up being happy just for being alive and for existing. That's basically what it is. It's getting you back in touch with , how you felt as a kid. Cuz as a kid, you didn't have all these things that you needed. All you really needed was you needed uh you needed some food, you needed some water, you needed some safety and some shelter. But basically, , you didn't care about any of that cuz it was all provided for you. And so you're just kind of happy being in reality and just existing and exploring what is here , right now and being totally in the present moment, not worrying about stuff. And as an adult, you get away from that and you get hooked on various , sources of stimulation, needing this hit of alcohol here, needing to watch some TV, needing some food, needing this. So getting hooked on that is is a problem. , Meditation also just it makes you happy. , This is something you should want to be doing because it's a really good way to make yourself feel good in your body is , to just sit there and be calm and be relaxed and connect with reality, , connect with existence rather than always be being be connected to like the social matrix that we are grow growing up in. By social matrix, I mean society, , all the demands of work and and politics and career and and family life. Like those are all like social obligations , and social responsibilities. But then sometimes you just want to unhook yourself from all that and realize that everything's okay in the moment. , Meditation is also good for improving your work performance, especially if you're uh a very creative person, if you're a high achiever type, if you're , an executive type, and your thought process is important to the work you're putting out, then you want to make sure , that your thought process is clean, it's streamlined, it's not overly negative, , and it can be focused. That's another thing that me uh meditation helps you with is it helps you with building up the free frontal cortex, building up , your willpower muscles so that you can actually use your brain for being a really effective tool. People that meditate a lot will have more willpower, , more discipline. It's going to be easier for you to stay on your diet. It's going to be easier for you to stay and work extra hours at work if that's what is , called for. It's going to be easier for you to generate creative ideas. , So that's really good. If you only do meditation just to get performance, then that's still a really good reason to do , it, just for the performance that your brain gets. And studies have also shown that just the health of your brain is going to get better. Uh meditation on a , consistent basis will help prevent things like Alzheimer's disease and will just keep your brain really healthy and active because you're using it. You're stressing it when you're doing , meditation. You're it's like flexing a muscle. And then lastly, this is kind of a more obscure and spiritual point, but you can actually use meditation to reach , a point of enlightenment, which I talk about in other videos. I'm not going to cover here. It's a really deep topic. , But if that's something that you're interested in, then definitely check out some of my other videos where I'm going to cover what enlightenment is and how , you can reach it through the use of meditation. But if you do meditation for a very very long time and you're very very disciplined at it, you eventually , can reach the point where you become so connected with reality that you feel like you are one with reality and all , the pettiness in your life, all the emotional hang-ups you have, all the psychological instability, everything you worry about, all that just melts , completely away. And I have not reached that state. So don't hold me to that. But that's what uh that's what the gurus say when they get there. So that can be a point that you can reach through meditation. So that can be like your , long long long long distance vision of maybe why you're doing it. All right. So let's get into the body of what , meditation is. Some of the some of the subtleties of it and actually how to do it. All right. So the reason we do it is to control negative thoughts. And there , is this Buddhist idea. The way that they label our mind is they have this analogy for the fact that your mind is like a drunk monkey. , Not just a drunk monkey having that monkey chatter, but it's like a drunk monkey who's been stung by a scorpion. , So just imagine imagine that. Imagine that image. And isn't that true? Isn't that how our days are sometimes? Maybe , for most of us, too much of our days are like that. Wouldn't it be nice to back away from that and to calm that monkey down so that it's not always running , around stung and drunk and doing crazy things? Kind of rain that thing in. , That's really why meditation is really useful. Okay. As far as how to meditate, there's a lot of stuff out there, , especially now because meditation is getting so popular in the west. You've got so many books, classes, courses, , manuals, videos. Look, meditation at the bottom line is extremely extremely simple and there's way too much around it. So, I'm going to make it really simple as to how to meditate. , Here's how you meditate. All right? And if you follow this advice, you're going to be doing it as efficiently as you can be doing it. So, you're not going to , need to innovate on this. It's really simple. Here's what you do. You get a chair, simple chair with a back on it. , You put it down. You sit on it every morning. You get a timer. You put that timer on your cell phone for, if you , have a smartphone, for example. You put that timer for . You sit down. , Put your arms on your legs back up straight. Close your eyes and just breathe deeply, normally, slowly, at a , consistent, even pace. And sit there for straight. and try to empty your mind of any specific thoughts. , That's it. That's meditation. , And when some kind of thought does creep in there that gets a hold of you, like for example, you're sitting there and everything is peaceful and calm, right? , Everything's nice and then all of a sudden it's like, uhoh, I need to answer that email. Uhoh, what happens if I uh , if I stay in at work an extra hour? Then I won't be able to pick up the kids. , When you start having those questions in your mind, you just realize that you're off track and you , just let it go. You let them go. Kind of like water passing under a bridge. and you try to clean your mind and you sit , there and you wait and you try to last it out and see how long you can sit through another period of meditation without getting hit by another thought , and when you start initially this is going to be extremely extremely challenging because right now if you've never tried it then you're probably , thinking like that's not I mean I know what you're talking about I can do that it's just going to be boring but when you actually do it you're going to find out how challenging it is it's very , simple but it's very challenging to actually do it because you're going to have thoughts creeping into your mind. , Every thought is going to come in and you're going to realize you're very very keenly aware of just how many negative thoughts you're having and how automatic , they are and how little control over them you do really have at least right now. And what's going to happen is that as you do this consistently every day , for weeks and months and years, you're going to recognize that you have more control and you're going to build up your willpower muscles to the point where your meditation sessions are going to get longer and longer and longer and you're going to be able to go , without having these thoughts get a hold of you and grab a hold of you and have some emotional effect on you. And that is the discipline that you're building. , That's the discipline of meditation. So very simple. See, there's no You don't need to take some class. You don't need to read some book. You don't , need to go buy a pillow. You don't need a special mat. You don't need special shoes or clothes. You don't need some special position. You don't need to , cross your legs in the full lotus position. You don't need to do any of those things. You can, but you don't need to do any of those things. And in fact, what I'm going to say is that all , those are distractions. Those are rituals that people have built around in order to sell you stuff or because there's dogma involved. and ancient , traditions of ritual that you don't need to get the core effect of meditation. , Meditation is just sitting quietly and not thinking about anything. It's just quieting your mind. That's all it is. And there's s slight variations on it, , but that's basically what it is. You can focus on your breath if you want to. you can focus on on one particular uh mantra , that you have maybe an affirmation that you have something like I am peace I am peace I am peace and just keep repeating , it and focusing on it but none of those things are necessary and in fact I think the best way is to do it very simply and take all the extraneous superfluous , stuff out cuz here's the problem is that even though I've given you the process it's a very dead simple process you're , still going to want to be tempted to innovate on this process and somehow complicate it, which is the exact opposite of what the point of meditation , is. It's supposed to unhook you from all that When you try to go and you be take all these classes and read all these books and buy all this , equipment, that's the exact opposite of what meditation is intended to do. , Meditation is intended to make you calm in the moment, just being who you are as you are right now, your current , experience, not needing to add anything to it. So, you don't need any of that stuff. Plus, it'll save you some money. , It'll save you some time. And the biggest thing that'll save you is excuses for procrastination. Because here's what's going to happen is that this thing is so simple that your mind can't accept that it's that simple. So, , what it does is in the in its infinite wisdom and its infinite trickiness is what it does is it convinces you that it , can't be this simple. There must be something more. Maybe I need this. Maybe I need that. I need to take a class to make sure that I do it right. and you , start coming up with excuses for not to do it, any sort of reason for not to do it to the point where you're going to be , sitting there on your chair doing your meditation and you're going to be doing it and then halfway through you're going to have a thought like, hm, these this , one thought keeps coming up. I must be not meditating. Like some for some reason I'm just doing it wrong. And so you get all but hurt about the fact that , you can't meditate. And you're going to start judging yourself for that. And maybe you get through and you barely barely make it through. You're almost about to quit. But let's say you , finally make it through to the 20-minute mark and your alarm rings and you're like, "Damn, I made it through." But something must be wrong. This is like , the fifth time in a row that I barely made it through. I must I must suck at meditation. I must need to go take a class or read a book or something. Or , maybe I should just quit because I'm not getting I'm not getting any peace or calm from this. I'm getting even more agitated. , That's totally normal. Anything that happens in meditation is totally normal. , The key thing is that you just try to center your mind and clear it of thoughts. That does not mean that to do a successful meditation your mind needs , to be always clear of thoughts. It's very very common misconception I think where people get totally misled. For me this was a big realization is that , literally anything that happens within the meditation session as long as you last out for and you at least try to keep your mind clear that's it. , Some days that's going to be much easier than other days. If you just had a breakup the night before with your girlfriend or boyfriend, good luck , having a clean, smooth meditation session the next morning, you're going to be frantic and all over the place cuz that monkey chatter is going to be , coming around and it's going to be running in circles in your mind and you're basically going to be totally out of control. But you know what? You still do it. And that that you put in is still of meditation. , Even if it was little windows of two seconds here and two seconds there where your mind was clear and the rest of it was filled with a bunch of garbage and nonsense. , So it is that's fine. That's the process. And when you start it is going to be challenging. That's what I mean by this thing being really difficult because you're not going to be able to do a smooth even minute of meditation. , All of it is meditation but you're not going to be able to do a smooth minute of no thinking is a more accurate way to put it. And that that's going to , frustrate you because you're going to assume that you've got it all handled and that your mind is clear and you've got good willpower and you're totally in control. But you're going to become very quickly shocked and odded into how little control you really have. Because what's going to happen is maybe you're going to last for like before , some negative thought creeps up or your imagination kicks in and you start fantasizing about something. And what you got to do is you just got to say, , "Okay, I recognize now that I'm thinking about something that's off track and I'm just going to let it go like water under a bridge and clear my mind." And you , just keep clearing your mind. And you don't judge yourself for the fact that you weren't able to clear your mind sooner. Cuz sometimes what'll happen is , that train of thought will carry you so far. Like let's say you're sitting and meditating and you've done the first minute and it's all clean and good and , then something something snaps into your into your brain some thought and it just carries you and it carries you along , maybe for two whole minutes and it sneaks up so subtly on you that you don't even realize that it's been carrying you along for , and then by the time you realize you're like oh damn that must have been a long time that I've been thinking about this this stupid situation , and And the next thought you're going to have is, "Oh, damn. I messed up worth of meditation." , The fact is that that's just the process of it. You're learning to build your willpower muscles. And don't judge yourself. All you do in that case is you , clear your mind. When you realize that you've wasted thinking about some thought, you clear it and you begin , a new. You're still going for . So, it doesn't matter. Those two minutes still count towards your , but you clear your mind and you , forget about it. You let it go. You don't get hooked on it. And if you do get hooked on it, which of course you will at the beginning, you'll start to , doubt yourself and you'll start to judge yourself and criticize yourself. , Recognize that you're doing that and let that go and just keep going through that process. Sometimes it's a really kind of stop and go, stop and go, stop and go, , grindy kind of process. It's not smooth. When you do it for a long time, it becomes silky smooth and polished. , That's kind of the state that you want to get to. And when you do that, when you get out of meditation, you'll find that your life becomes silky smooth, , too. Not always, but it's going to be more smooth than it was if you didn't do it. Okay. So, that's how to meditate and , some of the common concerns that people have about it. Let's talk about actually turning this into a practice. Because if you're not going to do this daily, I'm telling you right now, don't even start. , Don't start meditation unless you're committing to do it for at least every day. Doesn't matter when , in the day. Morning is better because you have less uh your energies are still , within you. You still have a lot of energy. You're not falling asleep because you just woke up and tends to be quieter in the morning. Less obligations, more obligations at night, , less distractions in the morning. So morning is best every single day. weekends and weekdays every single day. And you don't do this for a month. , You do this for the rest of your life. This is what a meditation practice is. , This is one of those things that's subtle. You have to appreciate the subtlety of what meditation is. It is not , this huge supercharging effect on your life. At least not initially. It can be that way after months and years, but , it's not going to be that way in the first month. And it's not even going to be that way in the first 5 months. I'm just telling you the way it really is. , I'm not being pessimistic or having some limiting beliefs. This is how it is. , Buddhist monks will meditate for 6 hours every day for decades before they get , the full effects of meditation. So you got to figure that if you're only doing it for , you got to at least do it once a day to get some sort of , effect. And that's what is so important is that you do it daily. You have to do it daily. I'm stressing this because people just don't do it. They don't do it daily. I'm guilty of it myself. So, , you got to do it daily. And to do that, , here's the secret is you have to convince yourself of the importance of meditation. , Cuz I rattled off a list of all the benefits that you can get. better brain health and better performance at work, , less stress, more happiness, potentially enlightenment. I've told you these things, but right now your mind isn't , bought into it yet. You're not bought into it. You don't see how it could practically improve your dayto-day. You , don't see that. And that's what you got to change is you got to change your relationship to why meditation is important. Because really, if you don't , see that, it's not going to be a high enough priority for you to do it consistently throughout your day, and you're going to get distracted by everything else, and you're just going , to say, "Ah, it's not important. I'll I won't do it." You have to really treat it as something important. The way I do meditation right now is I do an hour of , meditation every morning, and I've committed to doing it. I just started I've done I've done 30-day challenges meditation before, but right now I just , started really doing it much more seriously because I have recommitted myself and I've made a mental shift into , why meditation is important for me. And the way that I'm doing it is I'm using an audio program to help me along. It plays like nature sounds in my ears. Uh , and it also plays bional beats which actually helps to put your brain in the right medit meditative frequency. Um, , I'll talk more about that in other videos, which is actually a really powerful tool. It's called Hollow Sync, and there's other programs out there. , But the point here being that I've committed myself because in my mind, I painted a vision of what I'm going to be like a year from now, 2 years from now, , 10 years from now, 20 years from now when I do my hour of meditation every morning. For me, that means creating a business that's many, many, many times more profitable than it is otherwise. , For me, it means being much more fulfilled and happy. For me, it means having amazingly smooth relationships , and being like really calm and imperturbable emotionally, having full control over my emotions. It means having a really , healthy and strong brain that I can use to solve uh complex problems, creative problems, , uh analytical problems that I'm faced with all the time in my business and in my life. For me, this is it. And it also , for me uh that vision includes letting go of all the stuff from the past that I'm still holding on to because that's , another effect of meditation is that it gets you psychological development. It's almost like doing therapy but on a on a more subtle scale. So, it's kind of like , my therapy. And to me, to release all those negative blocks that I have, it's going to literally move me and evolve me , to new levels of uh of consciousness and just like performance. So, I'm doing it for both the performance, but then also for how it makes me feel and the health benefits. And I'm just like I'm really bought into that vision right now. So for me, committing an hour every morning , now is easy because I'm committed. But for you, it's probably not because you don't have that vision yet. So you have to do whatever you have to do to build that vision for yourself. It's probably , going to mean that you're going to try meditation out if you haven't before. , And you're going to try it out. You're going to just experiment with it. Then maybe you'll quit. Maybe you'll do a 30-day challenge like I did when I started out and you'll last through the , whole thing and you like it, but then you you you don't see the benefit of it in 30 days and so you drop it. But if , you read the literature and you listen to enough videos, you listen to enough self-help products, you're going to start to understand the subtle benefits , add up big big big big time. And then you're going to be bought in and you're going to be doing it. So go ahead and , get going on that journey. And then of course what I want to mention here is a lot of people will tell me oh I'm not , meditating because and they give a bunch of excuses like I'm not meditating because I don't have enough time in the morning. I'm not meditating because when , I sit down and meditate my mind's going all over the place and I find it difficult. I'm not meditating because I haven't I haven't studied the , techniques. I'm just going to go and take a class next month and then I'll meditate after I take the class or I'll read this book or I don't have the right , pillow to put under my ass when I'm sitting down in the half lotus position. , All of those are excuses because meditation is super super simple. All you do is you sit down, close your eyes, , and sit there for . So, the real reason that you're not meditating is because you're lacking discipline and , you're lazy and your lower self is coming up with all sorts of excuses to keep that laziness in place. It doesn't , want to crank. It doesn't want to crank itself up to a new state. It likes being where it is. It likes being comfortable exactly where it is. That's your lower , self. That's your reptilian brain. And your reptilian brain wants you to be lazy. And so you'll come up with a thousand excuses. Literally, , you can come up with a thousand excuses for why to procrastinate and why not to meditate. And the real reason behind all , that is that you're lazy and you haven't geared yourself into action. You haven't created a vision for yourself. So go , ahead, create that vision and then you will be on track. All right, this is it for me. I'm going to be signing off. Go , ahead, comment. As always, I love to get your comments. Share and like this and then go to actualize.org for more videos on advanced personal development just , like this and check out my uh personal development blueprint.
