---
title: "Transcript: Should You Go To College? - Common Traps & Mistakes"
search:
  exclude: true
---

# Transcript: Should You Go To College? - Common Traps & Mistakes

**YouTube:** [Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yVU2kOlXJ0E)

---

[music] All right, this one's for all you youngsters in the audience. Should you go to college? In this episode, we're going to take a deep look at the pros and cons of going to college. What some of the alternatives are, what some of the traps are. I'm going to give you the real scoop. uh a lot of truth that you're not going to hear anywhere else about the realities of college and whether it's worth it or not. You might be surprised at the conclusion that you reach. I'm going to give you a powerful alternative to college if you want to go down that road. And um we're basically going to explore everything you need to build the foundation for the rest of your life right here. So this is powerful stuff. Stick with me. This material can change the whole trajectory of your life. This is one of the reasons I love shooting content for people who are really young. Like, if you're watching this, I'm assuming you're between the ages of 18 and 20, somewhere around there in your teens. Uh, this is the perfect age at which to begin self-actualization. You're going to have such a huge advantage over everybody else. So, let's get into that. First of all, what are my qualifications for talking about this? Well, of course, I went to college. I finished a four-year degree. I graduated as a philosophy major. Uh, I also studied aerospace engineering for two years. I was a straight A student through high school and through college. I took all the advanced classes in high school, all the AP classes. Uh, I took a bunch of advanced classes in university. Uh, graduated actually half a year early. Within three and a half years, I finished my degree and then moved on to other better things. Uh, and I'll be talking more about my story here because it's actually pretty interesting. I've gone through a lot of shifts in my career, multiple careers. I've probably gone through four or five different career changes, changing majors. Uh at one point I I I wanted to be actually a philosophy professor and I was looking into that. So I I looked at various kinds of possibilities. And then also after I left university, I became a game designer, video game designer professionally. I got paid to do that. Worked at a great studio. Then I switched from that to running my own online businesses. I did web development. I did online marketing. And now I'm doing self-help, spirituality, philosophy through YouTube. So I've I've had a very interesting journey. Uh I've devoted a significant amount of uh my life to trying to figure out how to find the right direction in my life. And then the principles that I learned, I actually put into a course that I created. It's 25hour course specifically about how to find your direction in life. It's called the life purpose course. So you can find it on my website. So I've helped thousands of people, literally thousands of people figure out their life purpose through my course and through interacting with them uh one-on-one coaching people. I also was a life coach in between all those things. Uh I got certified for that and I've coached uh many many people on their issues and uh a lot of people have this problem of not finding the proper direction in their life. So this is a a real deep passion for me because my whole life was really about trying to find my own sense of purpose. So really this question of whether you should or shouldn't go to college, it's a much deeper question than just that. The problem is that society has just sort of programmed you with this idea that you should go to college. That's sort of what your parents want of you. That's probably what your teachers want of you. what your mentors want of you. Maybe your friends, your best friends, if they're academically inclined, they're probably shooting off to college and going through all the college prep work and all that rigomearroll. So, it's very easy just to to get caught up in that like being part of a a sheep inside of a herd and you just go along with all of your friends and what everybody is is doing. And of course, all of the teachers in your school, in your high school, if you're going to a good high school, they're probably pushing you, you know, to take all the hard classes and then to take the SATs and get good grades and then apply to the best schools, right? So, this can be a trap. You have to really carefully think about, is this really going to lead me to what I ultimately want in my life? So we have to back up a step and sort of zoom out and take a meta perspective and ask ourselves what is the point of all this? Why am I doing all this? Why am I reading all these books? Why am I going to all these courses? Why am I uh taking all these tests, jumping through all these hoops and going to these universities and then paying them tens and even hundreds of thousands of dollars for this? Is it really worth it? And of course, the answer isn't so simple. It very much depends on what kind of life you want to lead. So the ultimate thing I want you to start to think about here is not so much about college. Don't focus so much about college. The college question. Focus more about really the point of all this is you want to build your life as quickly as possible. Right now you're in this critical transition period between the ages of 18 and 24. Let's say and if you're not there yet, you're going to be there very soon. So this this period in your life is the period in which you can make or break your whole life. The entire foundation for your life is getting set right now. Really between the ages, it starts even earlier than that. Between the ages of 15 and let's say 25, this is where your whole life is being set. And most people what they do is they piss this time away by playing video games, hanging out with their friends, smoking weed, getting drunk, and all this sorts of stuff and then just going through the motions and just following along with the herd of what their friends and classmates and so forth are doing. This is a very big problem in our society. You need to start thinking independently and critically for yourself about what you want out of your life. And chances are you're already behind the curve. Even if you're 18 years old right now, you're it's already too late in a certain sense. You should have started when you were 15 or even younger thinking about what you want for your life. See, basically it breaks down like this. If college is something that's going to lead to how you ultimately want to lead lead your life, then go to college. Otherwise, don't. So, what do I mean by this? If you're interested in a in a very sort of conventional traditional career track and you are planning to actually make a a full lifelong career of 40 50 years in this conventional track according to some major in college like you know you want to be a a physics professor or you know you want to be a scientist. You know, you want to be an academic, you want to be a historian, you want to be a scholar, you want to be a professional philosopher, you want to be an engineer, uh computer, you know, AI researcher, a doctor, uh a chemist, these sorts of fields and majors, if you know for sure that you want one of these, then college is going to be necessary for you. Basically, you can't avoid it. You at the very least you need the certificates and all that just to go through that because like even engineering, you're probably not even going to be able to get an engineering job without having some engineering certifications, which at least is going to require a bachelor's degree probably at the very least. Um, so in that case, it's easy. And and and if you were that type of person, you probably wouldn't be watching this recording right now. The reason you're listening to this is because you're probably not so clear. You don't have clarity in your life about what you really want. You're waffling around. You're uncertain. You're undecided as many freshmen are when they enter uh university. They're undecided. They don't know what the hell they want. And so they're they're they're wasting the most critical period of their life uh doing things without understanding what they're doing or why they're doing it. Make sure you don't fall into this trap right now. All of your time and attention should be focused on not hanging around with your friends or playing video games, but sitting alone in a room by yourself for hours contemplating every single day for weeks and for months. What do I want out of my life? And then what will be required to get what I want to get that thing that I want out of my life? How am I going to get there? What's a realistic plan? And of course, look, I was in your shoes at your age, uh, to a certain degree. I was unclear exactly about what I wanted from university. Um, I first entered undecided, but then I also uh quickly uh went into aerospace engineering, spent two years doing that. Then I switched two years into it to philosophy. And uh, I'll tell you more about this story as as we go deeper in this episode. But anyways, just the point of it is is that uh I know what it's like to struggle with this. And of course, it's difficult sometimes to know what you want out of life because to know that you have to have experience. And at your age, you're so immature and so inexperienced that you don't really know what you want. And many of the things that you might even think that you want, you discover later that that's not what you really want. And part of that is just trial and error, testing stuff out and seeing that isn't fit for you. But when you're going to do that, you have to do it. See, there's a sort of a an unconscious lazy way of going about that. And then there's a conscious proactive way of going about that. If you just let things unfold organically following the path of least resistance, uh, and you do it unconsciously, not proactively, then what's going to happen is you're going to probably waste the next 5 10 years of your life just, you know, making all sorts of moves that end in in dead ends and don't they don't lead you anywhere. You're going to waste the most precious years of your life. Right now, you've got abundant health if you're if you've been fortunate with that. You've got energy. you're young. This is the time to really invest that into building the foundation for the rest of your life here. So, uh, the first thing I want you to to see is that if you had that kind of crystal clarity about what you really want from your life, these sorts of questions wouldn't even arise for you. It'd be very easy for you to make decisions about whether you should go to college, what major you should select, which classes you should select, and so forth. That would be very easy because you would know exactly what your end goal was and then you wouldn't be listening to me probably. So you're probably unclear. And that is one of the things that you need to one of your meta lessons here is clarity. Clarity in life is critical. We're not just talking about how to get through college here. We're talking about how to ace all of life. To ace all of life, you need to be crystal clear about what you want out of life. Otherwise, how can you get it when you even you don't know? How can other people give it to you? How can other people help you? How can all the resources that are necessary to make that happen come into your awareness if you're not clear and insistent about what you want? So, the first lesson here is spend a lot of time contemplating and just trying to become as clear as possible. Now, you can't just do it all in your head. I'm not saying that you can just sit alone in a room and contemplate for the next 40 years, you know, into the future about what your life should be and plan it all out. That's not what I'm saying. This is an organic process that will have to unfold over five or 10 years or even more for you as you're trying to figure yourself out, figure out who you are and what you want out of life. And part of that is going to be making some tests and and having some failures and going through various trials. You need experience. So exposing yourself to more experience is is crucial here. It's crucial. But also, it's not enough just to go bumbling into various things without contemplating. You can accomplish a lot of work here and save yourself years and even perhaps decades and also tens of thousands of dollars just by sitting alone in a room and contemplating a little bit more than the average person is willing to do. See, don't go looking to your friends in school for good role models about how to set up one's life. They don't know what the hell they're doing. See, they don't know what the hell they're doing. And your parents probably also don't know what the hell they're doing. And probably even your teachers don't know what the hell they're doing. They're stuck in some sort of job that's just paying the bills. that's that's not going to be sufficient for you to really excel in life. What we're talking about here is excelling in life. What we're talking about here is success, creating a a deeply fulfilling life for yourself. And in order to do that, you need to understand yourself deeply, which you don't. You might think that, well, but Leo, I understand myself. I know what I like, what I don't like. No, you don't. You don't. At your age, you can't possibly know all that yet. you don't have sufficient experience. Here's another critical insight for you about this topic. Each one of us, even though we can look similar and we can think that we're all human, and of course we are, [laughter] we're similar in many ways, but each one of us is also very unique. We have a unique constellation of personality traits, likes and dislikes, strengths and weaknesses. and God-given gifts and talents that it's our life's work here. Just to be born is to undertake this life's work of discovering these strengths and weaknesses that you have. Discovering your own personality, becoming intimately familiar with that and then constructing a life that is in alignment with that and not at odds with it. Because if your life is going to be the kind of life that most people lead, then your life and your career will be at odds with each other. Your unique strengths and gifts will not be fully actualized in the work that you do. And what we're talking about here is ultimately work. You're going to university. You're selecting a major. And then you got to somehow connect what you're going to be studying in university to the work that you're going to be doing after you get out of university. So, we're talking about a career path for you here. And really beyond a career path, we're talking about a life purpose. See, you don't just want a career that pays you well. That's not going to be fulfilling enough for you. No amount of money is sufficient to compensate you for 50 years of working in a career that you don't like and that you're not passionate about. You need to have deep passion about your career, whatever that is. And don't let anybody tell you what your career should be. Only you can decide that. Your parents can't decide that for you. One of the traps you're going to likely fall into is you're going to try to pick a career that your parents are going to pressure you into picking because it's one of those careers that's very kind of bankable and tangible like engineering, programming, becoming a doctor, a lawyer, an accountant, this sorts of stuff. See, for these careers, these are welltrodden careers. These careers have existed for hundreds of years. The university system is welld designigned to prepare you for entering one of these careers. But the problem is is that if you're lukewarm about any of these careers, it's not going to work for you. You got to look for something that you're deeply deeply passionate about. And passion here, don't let anyone fool you. Passion is not a luxury. Passion is an absolute necessity because we're talking about 50 years of working in this career. You can't excel at something for 50 years when you're not deeply passionate about it. Actually, by picking the career that you think is going to be the most profitable for you, but that you're lukewarm about, you're not passionate about, you're actually over the next 50 years, you're going to lose millions of dollars of value. You see, because if you would have picked the career that you were really passionate about, that you could spin off and you could make millions of dollars doing that because your passion is what drives you. If you lose your drive and your motivation because you're working some dead-end job as a wage slave, then you're losing so much of your human potential. You have enormous creative human potential. All of us do. The problem is how do you tap into it? That's what's difficult and nobody teaches you how to do this which is why I created the course, my life purpose course, 25 hours on this. There's a lot to say about it. I had to research all this stuff by myself through lots of trial and error over a period of 10 years. See, but nobody in your high school teaches you this stuff. Your parents don't teach you this life purpose stuff. Even in university, they won't teach you this lifep purpose stuff. So, you have to spend more time figuring out who you are as a personality. You're not even aware of your own personality yet at your age. Once you start to figure that out, then you can start to figure out what will and won't work for you. And then you can work with your passions and then you can start to tailor a career around that. Make your career and basically tailor your entire life specifically to who you are. That's what's going to lead to the best life possible for you. So, I recommend that you stop screwing around, stop delaying, and really take this critical next 5 years of your life very, very seriously. This is your self-discovery phase. This is where you're building the foundation for everything else. If you're unclear, get clear. It might take you years to get clear. I'm not saying you can get clear in a week or in a month. Now, for those of you who are clear and you know for for sure that you want to be a lawyer and that's what you're passionate about because you want to be a judge in the future and you really love law, whatever, you know, something like that, okay, college is is for you. It's perfect for you. But if uh if you're less solid about that and you're also thinking about one of these sort of um less tangible majors like maybe you want to be an English major or a philosophy major, psychology major, a sociology major, something where you're going to get that major, but then you're probably not going to get a job in that major. Like you're probably not going to be an English professor or teacher after you get your English degree. and you're probably not going to be a historian after you get your history degree. Uh that's a bit more problematic and we're going to spend a lot of time talking about how to how to deal with that kind of case. Uh but of course, by all means, if you want to if you clearly know that, for example, you want to be a professional psychologist or a professional sociologist or a professional historian, by all means, of course, go and do that. And then university is great for you. They've got you covered. But you have to think about where is your paycheck actually going to be coming from after you graduate. If you're not thinking about that, you're screwing this whole thing up. You need a solid tangible plan for your paycheck. Cuz if you don't have a solid tangible plan, I can tell you exactly what's going to happen and where your paycheck is going to come from. your paycheck is either going to come from your parents who you will be mooching off of uh for a long long time and they probably won't like that uh and you won't like it either cuz by by taking their money you have to follow their rules. See there's strings attached with their money. It's much better to live life financially independent from your parents. So that's also a key goal that you should be thinking about is how to break out of your family, move out and be on your own. become an independent person. This is going to be huge for you. It's a it's a gamecher. This is where life gets really really interesting is when you start to live by yourself without depending on others for financial support. It's also quite challenging to figure this out. Um, so yeah, like I was saying, I can tell you what the default is going to be if you don't take what I'm saying here seriously and you don't get clear very fast about your uh career and life purpose, you're going to end up in a dead-end wage slave job working at Starbucks, something along those lines. Uh that's that's even if you finish college, you see. And if you get something like an engineering major, but then you realize that you don't like that and you don't want to work as an engineer, guess what? You're going to become a a wage slave working at Starbucks. And it's not going to be very fulfilling because your talents and your creative potential is all going to be going to waste as you're pouring that coffee for eight hours a day and getting paid, you know, some minimum wage to do that. That is not a good way to live life. And the point of of earning a nice salary, which is going to come, of course, from you figuring out your career and being serious about it and developing your career, the point of earning a nice salary is not to have a bunch of money uh or luxury. It's really to buy yourself freedom. The freedom to live your life according to your strengths and your own unique personality and your passions and your top values. That's what the point of that is. I have an actually I have an episode called How to Escape Wage Slavery where I go into more depth about this this issue of wage slavery. It's is a big problem that many youngsters don't think about until they get out of university and then they realize, "Oh, wait a minute. I'm 25 years old. I just graduated, but I have no idea how my I'm actually going to pay my bills. Now I have to pay my bills and hey, I'm just going to go work at Starbucks or whatever is available." This you've you've screwed up. You've screwed up. You should have spent the the uh the prior 10 years of your life already having a rock-solid plan for uh career in business. You see, when I say business, some of you will think, "Oh, Leo, I'm not interested in business." No, you don't understand what business is. When I talk about business, I'm not just talking about business in the conventional sense. We're talking about the entire activity of human survival. That's business. You care about business. You deeply care about business because you care about surviving. Business is not crunching some numbers or earning a bunch of money. Business is survival. Really what we're talking about is if we take the entire global community of humans which is close to 8 billion people all of them comprise sort of a social matrix and within that matrix you need to survive. See you're not surviving in the jungle you're surviving in this social matrix and to survive in the social matrix you need money. The money is just a means of of exchanging labor and surviving within the social matrix. And so, uh, how are you going to be getting that money? Cuz you're going to have to get it somehow cuz you're committed to survival. You see, you have to survive. You need food. You need electricity. You need probably some luxuries like cable, internet, and other things like this to to lead the kind of life you want to lead. You see? So, are you going to be surviving on your terms or on somebody else's terms? Because if you're not going to be consciously figuring out your survival by figuring out your career and your life purpose and mastering business, then you're just going to be somebody's wage slave. That's what it's going to boil down to. That's going to be the default position. And once you become a wage slave, it's extremely difficult to break free of wage slavery. I know. I've been there. I was a wage slave for about a year. I didn't like it very much. In fact, I hated it so much I quit. I quit a I quit a promising career cuz uh I couldn't stand it. I wanted to be my own boss. And uh the best way to avoid or to escape wage slavery is is not to enter it in the first place. To plan your life out so well so early that you never even enter wage slavery. That's possible, but you have to you have to go above and beyond in order to to succeed in doing that. Now, of course, there's nothing wrong with a little bit of wage slavery here and there. If you need to to, you know, to hold yourself over, that's fine. But in the long term, one of the things I suggest you might be interested in that you might not even know that you're interested in is escaping wage slavery or avoiding it. And you do that by getting crystal clear about what you want out of life and coming up with a tangible plan for your career. See, I was so clueless when I was your age that I didn't even understand this problem of wage slavery and how much I wouldn't like it. The only way I had to learn that was by actually entering into it, seeing, oh, no, no, no, no. This is not this is definitely not right for me. And and then I had to work really hard to break free of it. So, start thinking about this stuff. Now, let's talk about different kinds of majors that you might be interested in university. If you have a hard major like, you know, engineering, physics, uh you want to become a medical doctor, whatever, these sorts of majors, they're easier in in the sense that it's more clear about what you got to do to master these majors. Then by all means, go to university for those. Now, the softer majors, you can still go to university for those. In fact, like I said, you know, philosophy, it's considered one of the softer majors. Um, actually, it's not soft at all. philosophy is one of the most serious subjects that there is. It's more serious and more important than physics, but and that's not how most people think of it because most people don't really understand or do serious philosophy. But anyways, yeah, there are these kind of softer majors that that you can major in. It's going to be very difficult for you to get a job directly related to that major. There's very few, for example, academic positions as a professional philosopher. There are some you can become a philosophy professor but generally these are plum positions. It's it's quite difficult to get one of these positions and the majority of people who become philosophy majors will never do professional academic philosophy in their life after they graduate. So what then? Well, you need a plan. You need a plan. And here's where I'll tell you a little bit more about my personal story uh because it serves as a good example here to illustrate some of these points. So I entered university basically as an aerospace engineering major. I was interested in aerospace engineering. I like the idea of you know the future of space travel and you know sending people to Mars. I thought that that was the future. That would be cool. I thought it would be cool to to work on these kinds of projects. and so sounded like a cool major. So I went into that and I was good academically so I could handle that. It was pretty difficult course load a lot of you know calculus and physics and so forth. So I spent two years doing that. But then I quickly realized like wait a minute what is going to be involved with his job? I have this sort of fantasy about what an aerospace engineer does which can be something like you know traveling to Mars and so and so on. But of course, that's not really what an aerospace engineer does. An aerospace engineer in reality sits in a cubicle for eight hours a day for 50 years of his life looking into a computer screen, you know, crunching numbers in Excel spreadsheets and CAD software. And when I thought about that and I thought, I'm going to be doing this for the rest of my life. This is what my entire life is going to boil down to is just sitting in a cubicle for for 50 years. Hell no. There's no way I can do that. Um, but I already sunk two years into this. I took all the hard classes. It felt like it was very difficult actually psychologically and emotionally for me to admit to myself that this major wasn't going to work for me because I already sunk a lot into it and I thought that well maybe I can just tough it out two more years and then um somehow make it work in the future. No. That would have been a huge mistake. So, one of the most important decisions I made in my life was to cut my losses here, admit the mistake, not try to whitewash it or sweep it under the rug or ignore it, but to make the difficult choice to find something that I'm really passionate about. And one of the things I was always passionate about, and in fact, as as as a youngster, I thought about doing professionally was video game design. So I started to to think more seriously about that. The problem with that is that it's sort of a field that is not a traditional career path. It's not like a lock a lawyer or a doctor or an accountant, something like that, right? It's one of these more new modern careers and you know there's always new careers that are coming online. New careers are are being developed by society every single decade. Uh and usually they're not taught at universities, not at the major ones at least. There can be specialized schools. Um, but in my university, there was no game design curriculum, no game design department. The closest thing would have been computer science, which was not game design. I wasn't interested in game programming. I wasn't interested in game art. I was interested in game design specifically. So, uh, one of the problems I had here is I I I didn't know could I really get a job doing this. It seemed kind of like this one one of these kind of fanciful, you know, kid dreams, like, you know, a kid dreams about becoming an astronaut and then when they grow up, they they realize, no, that's too hard or too unrealistic or something like that. But I started to research game design a little bit more and I realized, no, this this is a legitimate field and there there can actually be good money doing this. Uh, there's a big future in it. And um and so I decided to switch basically to game design. But there was of course no game design classes in my university. So I said, "Well, the other thing that I'm passionate about is I was at that point late in high school, early college, I was interested in philosophy a lot. I had a lot of deep existential questions that I was asking about life. Like what is life? Why am I here? What is all of this? How do I become happy? How do you live the good life? What is knowledge? How can we know anything is true?" This sorts of stuff, you know, what is religion? And I I was very very interested in these questions. Um and so I started to toy around with the idea of like well it could be game design or I could become like a professional philosopher and I was kind of toying with these different possibilities. But I knew I couldn't do it all. I had to make some decisions here. And the definition of making a decision is that you're making a a cut between two different possibilities and you're cutting one off. you're deciding not this one but this one. Right? So you're saying to no to something when you're making a decision. So I hatched this plan that maybe I can go to a specialized game design university and I looked around for those. I actually found one in Seattle uh that was pretty good. The problem was that it was too expensive and there wasn't financial aid for it. My family couldn't really afford to send me there. It was also far away from home. So I I would have to live and there's costs with living in a different state from where I, you know, where my nearest university was near my home. So anyways, that possibility was limited. So I hatched this plan that I would go full in on game design and I would teach myself game design. I would switch my major from aerospace engineering into philosophy. Philosophy was a lighter course load. It was also something I was more passionate about and I was sick of doing engineering course work. So I really wanted to study philosophy and at the same time while I was studying philosophy my plan was that I would teach myself enough game design skills by doing various projects and online tutorials and things like that and just basically teaching myself the skills doing modding work on various games and then I would be able to build a portfolio and then use that portfolio to get hired by studios after I graduated with my philosophy degree. That was the plan. And uh then I went to work on that plan and actually it worked out pretty well. I graduated half a year early and then I used that half a year that I sort of saved by switching to philosophy. Um, I used that to to do some some serious game design projects and then from that I built my portfolio and I applied to various game studios and uh I was actually lucky enough to get hired by one of the top studios in the country and really in the world. Um, I got hired by 2K Boston or Irrational Games as you might know it. Um, that who developed Bioshock and uh and then they actually hired me right after Bioshock was released. They hired me to work on Bioshock Infinite. And so I I did pre-production work on Bioshock Infinite for about a year. And then after that, you know, even though I got this amazing job uh with game design, you might think, "So you've made it, Leo. You found this great job. It's like the dream job and you finally got it." You know, it's pretty hard to break into the game industry as a designer. See, it's a lot easier to break in as a programmer, as an artist, but as a designer, it's pretty difficult to find entry- level design positions, but I was able to do that. And um the problem though and I was making pretty decent money. The problem though is um I didn't like being a wage slave. I really hated it. I hated it so much that I had to then give up on that on that idea of working for AAA Studios. I didn't want to do that. So then I had to hatch a new plan to to develop my own businesses so I can develop the financial independence to stop being a wage slave and then do whatever I wanted to do. have the creative autonomy to create whatever I wanted to create. And so I ended up doing that. Spent several years learning web development and online business. Did online marketing and so forth. Um was able to sort of bootstrap myself that way. Made some decent money. And then from there stuff unfolded and eventually I got into self-help and then I got into uh what I do now with actualize.org. And then I've been doing that now for for eight years or so. So, and then al also in between there, I I I um I got uh certified as a life coach. I went through a life coach training. I spent a lot of time learning self-help before I started actualize.org. That's when I got my life coaching training and certification and then I I coached people, actual clients. So, anyways, um that's kind of my story. As you can see, I I wandered around quite a bit quite a bit. I tried various things and I think that that's what you got to do to really discover what you want out of life. The problem that I see for most people is that they try one thing and then they get kind of stuck in it and it takes a lot of inertia and emotional labor to break out of that to try something else. And so they just they get lazy and they just get stuck in one thing and then it it's not a good fit for them but then they just endure it for the next 40 50 years of their life and it makes them depressed. It makes them bitter. It makes them angry, resentful, and it robs them of all their potential. And then they also have financial difficulties because of course when you resent your job, you can't really work well at it. You can't generate the value and give a lot of value to the world. And therefore, the world's not going to give a lot of value to you back. That's why passion is so critical and why passion is not a luxury because passion is what allows you to create massive value for people. And massive value creation is how you get well financially compensated. So it is okay to wander around and also this this everything I talked about here was occurring over a period of like 10 years, right? So it took a while. It's not like I just sat down and figured it all out in one go. But one thing that I was always very adamant about no matter how much I wandered is I knew that what I wanted was to live a life on purpose. I knew that what I wanted was to be passionate about my work and I was very proactive and deliberate in pushing myself to set up the foundation of my life that I wasn't unclear about that I was crystal clear about and that's why it worked and that's why it doesn't work for many other people because they're not crystal clear about that. So, it's not so important that you know right now exactly which major you need to go into or which career is going to be your ultimate career. What's more important is that you're committed to figuring it out and you're working on that every single day for months and years on end. So, uh, one key distinction that's going to help you is that realize that there's a big difference between your fantasy, your imagination of what a job is and then the actual job itself. Like the fantasy of being an aerospace engineer, you might imagine, is going to Mars and building cool rocket ships and stuff. And then the reality of being an aerospace space engineer is sitting in a cubicle looking at a screen for eight hours a day at Excel spreadsheets. See, night and day. Night and day. So, you have to make sure that the actual job that you're going to be doing is going to be something that you're satisfied with and that the difference between your fantasy or your image of that job and the actual job is not too great. And the way you disabuse yourself of these illusions and fantasies is by actually going and doing some of this some of this work. Like maybe you want to be a writer. Go try writing a short story and see how that feels. Maybe you want to be a filmmaker. Go actually try to film a little indie film and see how that feels. Do you actually enjoy doing that? See, cuz you might have this image of of a filmmaker, but that's different from actually shooting a film. you might not actually like the process of shooting a film, in which case you got to go find something else. So, here are the top problems I have with college. First of all, it's the financial cost and going into debt. This is a huge problem, especially these days as the the costs have have have risen skyrocketed so much and they're out of control. You can easily spend 10 to $50,000 per year times four years. You can rack up 50 to 100 to $200,000 in student debt. Depending on what kind of universities you go to, of course, the more elite universities are going to be even more expensive. So, here of course it depends on what your financial situation is. If uh your parents are are wealthy and they're going to pay for everything, well, then it's it's a little bit easier for you to decide to go to university. On the other hand, if your parents are poor and they're not going to be paying for anything and you're basically going to have to get a bunch of loans, maybe you can get some scholarships or grants, but probably not. You're probably going to have to incur some some loans and debt as well, then it's it's a much more iffy proposition. For example, if right now I would have to relive my life over again and someone told me that I would have to accumulate $50,000 worth of debt once I graduate at age 24. Let's say uh in order to get my college education, I would say no. That's that's dumb. It's not worth it. It's not worth it because the debt will the debt will drive you so deep into wage slavery. You're going to be looking for any job. You're going to be desperate like a desperate dog looking for, you know, a little bit of food just to survive, just to pay your debts. And these debts from student loans, you can't even clear them with bankruptcy. At least not in America. Now, of course, if you're living in one of these cushy Scandinavian countries that I hear about or in northern Europe, like in Germany, I hear that supposedly they give you a free college education. Uh that's that's pretty mind-blowing. Uh from my perspective as an American, that's that's pretty amazing. So, if you've got that kind of situation going for you, and I've even heard that in Scandinavian countries, they will actually pay you a stipen to go to university. [laughter] So, if if you have that opportunity, well, uh that might be a no-brainer cuz you got to consider what's the alternative. What else are you going to do with your life? Which brings us to the second problem I have with college. And this is actually an even bigger problem than the financial problem. This is the problem of the opportunity cost. See, the four years you're going to invest in college, that's going to be a lot of time studying, going to courses, and you know, you're going to be doing that bas basically six days a week for the next four years. Uh, think about what else you could do with all that time. there might be much better uses of your time, especially because many of these courses and classes that you're going to be taking are going to be highly impractical and are going to be teaching you things and skills that are never going to be used by you in your actual career. So here here it's really important that you think about how the actual skills and knowledge that you're gaining from the actual specific classes that you're going to be taking, whether that's going to be knowledge and skills you're going to be using on a daily basis for the next 50 years. And if it's not, then recognize it as a giant waste of time. Now, don't get me wrong, there's something very valuable about just education in general. I'm very pro- education. In fact, I'm so pro- education that my critique of university ultimately is going to come down to that it's not educational enough. Not that it's too educational. There's sort of a critique of university from above and from below. My critique is from above. I've gone through the system and I've seen the problems with the system. And to me actually the education that's offered in universities even in really good ones is lowquality education. Mostly even if you go to MIT or Caltech or whatever mostly the education you're getting there is you're getting indoctrination. You're memorizing. You're cramming for tests. It's um they're not really teaching you how to think very deeply about anything. They're also not teaching you the the practical and important life skills that you need to really be successful and fulfilled in your life. There's a lot of academic mental masturbation in these universities. Now, of course, you know, if you're going to be a physics uh researcher, then of course, yeah, you got to go through that. There's a lot to learn about physics and university will teach you physics very well or engineering or something like that. Um, but if that's not going to be your actual career, like for example, I spent two years learning advanced physics and calculus. And now now what I do, the business that I do, even when I do computer programming, you know, I've done quite a bit of programming through for web development and also as part of my game design um skill set. And you know, I I almost never used the advanced calculus and physics even in game development. It's rarely used. So, I mean, it was a giant giant waste of time in retrospect. So, you got to really think about all of the practical and useful skills and knowledge that you could be learning versus what the university classes will be teaching you. This is a huge huge world of difference here. Um, I'm willing to bet for that for the majority of you, what the university is going to be teaching you is not going to be something you're actually going to be using ever in your life for the most part. And actually, sometimes there going to teach you stuff that you're going to have to unlearn. For example, you might say, "Well, what about English? I mean, English is something you can learn in university, and that's useful. You can use that in business and elsewhere, right? Not so much. What I actually realized that after after learning four years of you know advanced English, writing essays and so forth uh in university when I got into the business world, I noticed that all of those English skills for academia were completely useless in business, completely useless for marketing, completely useless for sales, highly impractical, uh very counterproductive, um very arrogant and obnoxious and pedantic. these sort of academic English skills. I had to unlearn that, learn to speak more conversationally, more casually. Um, even like in my in my in even in my recordings, in my videos, I I speak very casually. I don't use a lot of complex academic terminology and so forth. Even though I could, I had to unlearn that. Took me some years to unlearn that. Um so in in a certain sense academia is this bubble of its own and it is possible to sort of get fooled into thinking that the academic bubble is how it is out in the real world in the business world and it isn't. It isn't at all and this is uh one of the problems with our current university education system. So the opportunity cost is potentially enormous. You can spend the next four years of your life in some major learning some major and then you're never going to use any of those skills or any of that knowledge ever again once you graduate university. And this would be a huge waste of time and also money if you're actually paying for that. If you get it for free, uh, okay, maybe uh but uh it's it's a huge huge waste of time. If you really took your education seriously, you could learn so many skills in four years. So many practical and valuable skills. And one of the biggest problems today is we have people who are graduating as English majors, history majors, philosopy majors, sociology majors, psychology majors, even physics majors, whatever, even engineering majors, but then they don't go into those fields. And then also when they get into the workplace, they realize that everything they learned had nothing to do with the actual work that they're going to be doing. Even as an engineer, many of the things they teach you in engineering school, I mean, they of course they teach you some some basic foundations like math and physics that you're going to need no matter what. But many of the things they teach you are not actually what you're going to be doing at your job when you're going to be doing engineering. So, a lot of kids and teens are fooled into this idea that, well, I'm going to graduate university and then I'm going to have this fancy diploma and then I can use that and this degree and this uh all these good grades that I earned, I can somehow use that to survive in the business world. Cuz see, once you leave the university academia bubble, then you're in the business world. So, don't tell me that, oh, Leo, I'm not interested in business. No, you're very interested in business because you're going to be in business for the rest of your life once you're out of university in academia. And even university academia is is business. It's one of the business biggest businesses there is. It's we'll talk about that in a second. It's basically a pyramid scheme. More on that in a second. But uh let me finish this point uh that I was on. So, so yeah, you need skills that actually work in business. You need tangible marketable skills that actually offer value to your employers and to your clients and customers, not just theoretical knowhow or knowledge. And so, the illusion is that you think you're going to go to university, you're going to work really hard to get these good grades for four years, and then after that you think, okay, I've I've made it now. I have all these valuable skills, right? No. you're you're at ground zero. You spent four years uh running like a hamster in a wheel getting nowhere. So be careful with that trap. Now let me talk about academia as a pyramid scheme. Really really our education system right now today is still in the dark ages. The education system is very corrupt. It's very cut and dry. It's very much indoctrination, just pure memorization. Uh even in great universities, this is true. Uh sometimes you'll encounter the exceptional professor or the exceptional class, but for the most part, most classes are just paint by numbers indoctrination. And academia is a pyramid scheme. So you understand why is because the reason they they they charge you, you know, tens of thousands of dollars, hundreds of thousands of dollars of all the students on the bottom of the pyramid, they need a constant churning of new students coming in, spending their daddies and mommy's money, uh funneling that money up the pyramid. Then these universities, you know, they have giant bloated budgets and so forth, and then they pay all their professors fairly well. And these professors get these tenure positions. But then to be within this university pyramid scheme, there are only a few positions at the top. So the amount of people who can actually become professors who work at these top universities is extremely small. These positions are extremely competitive. It's virtually impossible to get them. Uh you have to be the cream of the crop to get these positions and people are fighting over it. And the majority of people will not get them. But there's a sort of an illusion that it could happen. And the whole academic system is basically geared towards creating uh uh academics, but the majority of people going to university will never be academics or scholars. Probably less than 1% of them will be. And it's very difficult to succeed as an academic or a scholar outside of academia. They don't basically teach you those skills. They don't teach you the business skills you need to succeed in that, not the marketing skills, not the sales skills. And so, basically, once you've got this sort of academic degree, like a philosophy degree, what are you going to do with it? I mean, you could try to become a professional philosopher, but that's going to be very difficult for you to do. There's not enough positions. And so in a sense is a pyramid scheme uh that depends upon new fresh minds getting pumped into this meat grinder every single year. That's what these universities run on while they proclaim to be these bastions of truth and wisdom and knowledge. Actually the reality with universities is that uh mostly the whole university system is geared towards stupid people. It's factory farming education. Factory farmed education. The way that we factory farm cattle is the same way that we educate people in universities. There's not a lot of consciousness or wisdom in the education system. Now, we have to be careful here because there are some serious benefits to university education. I'm not just trashing the whole thing. There is value in just general education. General education rounds you out as a as a human being. It gives you a sort of a breadth of of knowledge about history, about art, about science, about math. Just that is important because otherwise what we have is we have a population of of morons. And these morons will then not be very good citizens and lead to all sorts of uh catastrophes, social and political. For example, look at what's going on right now in our political situation in America and also in many parts of the of the world. Nationalism is on the rise. Fascism on is on the rise. Authoritarianism is on the rise. Conspiracy theories are on the rise. All of this is directly related to lack of education. Look at who votes, for example, for Donald Trump. the people who vote for Donald Trump. One of the most clearest distinguishing features of those who do and those who don't vote for Donald Trump is that those who do by and large don't have a college education. And that's why they get suckered into the kind of nationalistic ideologies that this con man is is pedalling. Because when you go to college, at least what the college will teach you, if if you're going to good college, they will teach you how to evaluate your sources, how to distinguish which sources are high quality, which are lowquality sources. They will set standards and norms for you intellectually. They will they will instill in you a sense of intellectual honesty and integrity. they will uh steer you away from radical ideologies and conspiracy theories because this doesn't pass academic muster. You see um and that that's very very valuable. Otherwise what we get is we get a population of morons and half the population even more uh basically doesn't have a college degree, college education. So they don't have any of these kinds of standards. they become very easily susceptible to all sorts of propaganda, conspiracy theories, cults, uh ideologies that become very very toxic and ultimately can lead to things like uh you know authoritarianism, fascism, Nazism and so forth. Serious stuff. Serious stuff. So I am very pro- education. Again, like I said, my critique of the university system is that it's actually not enough of the right kind of education. For example, the most important things that a human needs to know, the practical skills, the kind of stuff that I teach with my channel with actualize.org, the self-help skills, the psychology skills, this the deep existential understanding of reality, practical life skills, these are not taught in university at all. I mean, it's it's just absurd. It's completely absurd and backwards. Really, what I'm teaching here through through my work through actualize.org is what university education should be about. But of course, it's not about that at all. And it can't be because it would be too big of a political powder cake because the stuff that I teach actually will seriously transform your whole life and society. But that's exactly what a pyramid scheme doesn't want is to be deeply transformed and revolutionized. Right? So there's vested interests that keep this corruption in place. And another problem with with university that I was actually shocked to discover is that even if you select a major that you're interested in, like I selected philosophy, but actually I couldn't and I wasn't allowed to study the stuff that I really love within philosophy. I had to study philosophy that was according to their strict little schedule. Like if you want to graduate in four years, you have to take classes on a very strict schedule. And a lot of times what would happen is that there were like there was a philosophy class that I really wanted to take but I couldn't take it because its time slot conflicted with another philosophy class that I had to take cuz it was like a formal requirement of getting the degree. So I had to take this one which I wasn't interested in but the one I was interested in I couldn't take cuz the time slot was conflicted and this happened to me numerous times. So I was actually very disappointed with with academic philosophy because the most interesting aspects I had to learn myself just off on my own. And in a sense university was taking time away and all the homework assignments and all the all the readings and all the tests and essays that I had to write all of that was taking time away from me just studying philosophy. It's actually much better to study philosophy off on your own than it is through some sort of formal university system. See the reason I say that college is is designed for dumb people, it's designed for people who are not capable of disciplining themselves and educating themselves. So they go into this mechanical meat grinder process. This process is just a a set of steps of paint by numbers that you go through these steps, you go through these classes, you do these things, and then supposedly you're educated and now they give you a certificate. But I mean that's so stupid because all these subjects have so much depth and nuance to them. Your certificate says nothing about how much you really understand about your subject. See just because you have a philosophy degree doesn't really under mean you you understand philosophy. Even if you have a philosophy PhD, that doesn't mean you understand anything about philosophy. I can run circles around a philosophy PhD professor uh cuz I've studied philosophy so deeply on my own, but I don't have a PhD. So most would consider me like a bad philosopher because I don't have a PhD. But actually in the actual substance of understanding my understanding is way deeper than any academic philosopher or any physicist uh or any psychology. Like my understanding of human psychology is an order of magnitude deeper than any academic psychologist or therapist um in a university. Why is that? Precisely because the university doesn't allow you for the really deep understanding. they allow you or what they do is they sort of they they funnel you into a a very standard way of thinking about your field and that can be very limiting if you're someone who's ambitious like me and really wants a lot out of life. So you have to figure out how ambitious are you, how self-driven are you, how motivated are you, how willing are you and able are you to discipline yourself. Cuz if you are good at all those things, then maybe you don't need university. University is mostly for sheep, not for independent, highly creative thinkers. It's like a religion. You see, for a lot of people, what they need is they just need a standard meat grinder system that they go through. Like with religion, religion works for a lot of people precisely because it involves no thinking. Most religious people are not interested in asking deep metaphysical questions and epistemic questions about the nature of self and life and reality and death and these sorts of things. They're not interested in contemplating this stuff at all. What they want is they just want to be told when to arrive, who to listen to, and what to believe. So, it goes like this. Someone tells them, "Okay, show up on Sunday from 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. Listen to this guy standing at the pulpit. He will tell you everything about life and everything about death and and the afterlife and how to live the good life and what you need to do and you need to follow these 10 rules, these commandments. And as long as you follow those and you say 10 Hail Marys and you come and you confess your sins, you know, once in a while, then you're good. You're going to have the good life. See, for many people, that's extremely appealing because they're just sheep. They just want to go through this mechanical process. They're not interested in actually getting dirty with life and trying to figure it out for themselves. And this is true for many people who join institutions, groups and organizations. It can be companies, corporations, nonprofits, uh political parties, and universities. There's an appeal to that kind of highly institutionalized bureaucratic mechanical system. You don't need to think very deeply. You're not constantly confused. You don't need to worry about disciplining yourself because they tell you when to show up and what you need to do. If you had to do that all on your own, if you had to figure out how to educate yourself all on your own, that would be a serious challenge. But also, it might come with a serious reward or benefit that you couldn't get any other way. One of the illusions that university sort of fools you into because it's convenient for their pyramid scheme is this idea that your your credentials or your degree is worth anything or that your grades matter. They don't. Your degree means nothing. Literally nothing. It doesn't matter what your degree is. Doesn't matter what your major is. Doesn't matter what your grades is. None of that matters. What matters is how much value are you able to offer the world? How creative are you able to be? How much are you able to help fellow human beings in ways that they need? If you can do that, then you'll have an easy time surviving in the world. And if you can't, no matter how many degrees you have and majors and what major you are or what grades you you get, that doesn't matter. Never in my life has somebody asked me, "Hey, what were your grades like back in university?" Never. Never. Not one of my employers, not one of my clients, they don't care. And for that matter, nobody ever has asked me for my degree or for a certificate on anything. It doesn't matter. Of course, some of course I get hundreds of thousands of of YouTube comments over the years. So reading all those of course some people do ask me sometimes but but generally like no serious person asks me for my degree on anything because the value I offer the world does not depend on any degrees or any certificates. All that's that's just human What it depends upon is can I offer you some insights, some wisdom, some uh techniques, some ideas and concepts that will be helpful to you and you for yourself will clearly see that they're helpful or they're not. And if they're helpful to you, you'll want to do business with me. And if they're not, you'll go away. And that's generally how the business world works. People don't care about what your qualifications are. What they care about is what you can do for them. So, like as a computer programmer, to be an amazing computer programmer, you don't need a college degree. In fact, if you spend four years by yourself just learning computer programming, I can almost promise you, you'll be a better computer programmer than if you spend four years in a computer science as a computer science major. The real skills are mostly learned outside of university off by yourself on your own working on your own projects. So that's the reality of it. Now is there you might say well Leo the way you're portraying this then university sounds terrible. No it's not terrible. There are benefits to university. So, first of all, getting a general education, a well-rounded education, that is important. And honestly, most people don't know how to educate themselves. So, if the option is between you not educating yourself at all and just, you know, going to work at Starbucks versus getting four years of of a of a decent university education, I would much rather you get this cuz if you just go working at Starbucks after high school, you're going to be an idiot for the rest of your life, probably. I much rather you have this. Um, but but you can have so much more than this. See, there's there's so much more here. The question is, how much are you really willing to invest here? Are you really willing to go above and beyond what everybody else is doing and just being a sheep herded through this meat grinder system? If you are, then I've got some amazing uh ideas for you here in a minute. Let me finish though with the benefits of college. So it's an easy way to educate yourself. It's uh it's also very good for socialization actually. And that's one of the things that I one of the biggest mistakes probably that I made in my life is that I focused so much on career development for the first 25 years of my life that I didn't put any of my skill points so to speak into socialization relationships and I was very deficient in that department with dating and so forth. Basically, I was so focused on building this foundation for my life that I didn't leave any room for for dating when I was in high school and in college. And in retrospect, this was a mistake because those were the perfect times to develop socialization skills, dating skills, experience with sexuality, and so forth because it's much more difficult to develop these things later after you graduate university. So, you're going to be missing a lot of opportunities there. But also, I should warn you though that a lot of people make the opposite mistake of what I made. I swung my pendulum too much into the uh sort of career direction. Most people though I see them swing the in the opposite direction of they get so lost in relationships and in dating and sexuality worth when they're at this age they go you know to frat parties getting drunk and having sex and all this and then falling in love into these into these kind of shallow frivolous infatuous infatuated sort of relationships uh that last for months or maybe for a year then they end and it's just this string of broken relationships Uh and uh it it just the sort of sort of young foolish love that ends up wasting a lot of your emotional energy because you know these relationships once you fall in love in these relationships you know they can be so emotionally draining that it's going to it's going to take all of your focus away from your career building this foundation for yourself actualizing yourself developing yourself all the stuff that I talk about that you know forget it. You can you can easily lose years and years of your life, the prime of your life, this critical phase of your life to these sorts of stupid, you know, sexual escapades. You have to be careful. You have to kind of balance it out, find a healthy middle ground there. So, yeah, college is good for that. And again, if if you're very clear about, you know, becoming an engineer or a doctor, then yeah, college is great for that, too. But other than that, I don't have much much positive to say about college other than that it's better than working at Starbucks. I mean, you have to consider alternatives. Like if you don't go to college, this is one of the biggest fears I have in giving this advice to people is that if I tell people that, you know, college sucks and then they just say, "Okay, well fine," and then they they do nothing and then they just end up going to Starbucks. Well, in that case, I would have rather shot a video telling you how great college is because that would have served you better. My point in criticizing college is to show you a higher path. So let's talk about that a little bit here. What is the higher path? What is the alternative to college? The alternative to college is a serious commitment to self-education. Take all that time and money and energy and focus and emotional labor and channel it all into the most important skills that you will need to sur survive and to succeed in life. and all the things you're most passionate and interested about. Create your own curriculum. What do you want to study? Don't ask somebody else to tell you what that is. In this way, your self-education can be far superior to college. You can learn a lot more a lot faster because what you'll be learning is the stuff you really love. When you're studying what you really love, you learn it very fast. You learn it very deep. And also it'll be a lot more practical because the way I recommend you learn is not by reading textbooks but by actually doing projects. And this is how I basically taught myself most of the skills that are most important in my life that I have used to create a lot of success. You know, I've created millions of dollars worth of success for myself and I'm still only in my mid-30s. So I have been successful using these techniques. I'm not just, you know, sitting up here talking to you as as some sort of poor person who's barely scraping by. I've been I've been running my own businesses for 10 years now. I've been financially fully financially independent, uh, free of wage slavery for 10 years, doing great for myself financially, you know, able to buy myself a house, a car, everything, zero debt, uh, no financial difficulties. How was I able to do that? By building really powerful skills, very marketable, valuable skills, mostly through doing my own projects, I would have an idea of what I want to work on, create a little project for it, work on it. For example, the way I became a game designer and got hired by one of the best studios in the world to work on AAA games. That's not easy to accomplish. How did I accomplish that? I spent seven months developing a a mod. Actually, I developed a mod for Oblivion. It's one of the most popular mods called Lost Spires. Maybe you played it for Oblivion. Uh spent seven months developing that full-time. Full-time. Uh I learned so much about game development, developing that mod. Uh I made a lot of mistakes, but also learned when you're developing your own project, you learn skills much, much better. I also taught myself web development. I'm pretty good at front-end web development. I also know how to do some backend web development. Um, I'm fluent in in HTML. Um, CSS. I'm really good with CSS. Uh, I know some PHP. Um, I I do I did a lot of uh graphic design, front-end graphic design for websites. Created a lot of different websites that I didn't really publish, but just kind of for myself. Um, and I was doing that all throughout my teenage years. I was just kind of interested in web development by working on these projects. And I learned web development much better than I could have learned it if I went to university for that. So the way that you educate yourself very deeply is that you work with these projects. You try different projects. These projects can be something that ranges from a month to complete, two months to complete, sometimes six months to complete. Don't work on projects that take too long because one of the biggest mistakes you can make is you can come up with a project that's so gargantuan and so ambitious it'll take you five years to complete it and then you never will. So keep your project small. Also by tinkering around with stuff like if you want to be an engineer, one of the best ways to learn to be an engineer is just start tinkering with whatever you want to do. You know, if you're interested in robotics, start tinkering with little robotics. You can go buy like a little robotic set uh online or at the store and start tinkering with that and then start machining your own little robotic parts and so forth. You know, buy motors and buy wires and buy solar panels and hook them up together and then, you know, try to create something. This is much more valuable actually than just what you're going to be learning at university. Also, through freelancing, you can do freelancing work. Like if you want to learn to be a computer programmer, a web designer, whatever, a writer, you can take small, lowpaying freelance gigs. And these freelance gigs, what's so great about them is because you're going to be interacting with a boss, somebody who's hiring you, a client. This client is going to have real world demands upon you. Real business demands, not just some academic but real business demands. And if you're able to meet those demands, that shows you what you need to be successful in the world, how to survive, how to earn a decent paycheck. And then you can take those skills and you can keep amping them up and then keep raising your rates and slowly you can do better and better freelancing. And then you can parlay that off into an actual job, a full-time career for, you know, from for some employer. And then you can use your freelancing gigs as a you know as a nice resume piece to show your employers that uh you know what you're doing. Likewise with these projects that you build, one of the reasons these projects are so amazing is you can document these projects and you can create a portfolio of these projects. And one of the best ways to get hired is not with a degree but with an amazing portfolio. If you want to get hired as an artist, as a computer programmer, as a web designer, as a filmmaker, as a video editor, as a producer, as a whatever, have a few projects, make them very, very small but polished, and present them to prospective employers, and they will want to scoop you up. Nothing impresses an employer more than a well polished project. You don't uh you don't even need a bunch of projects. Really, one solid, well polished project in any field that you want to work in will be enough to land you a great job. So, this is a hands-on project-based education. And when you're trying to accomplish these project, of course, it's difficult. A lot of times you you stumble and you you run into technical challenges trying to create these projects, but that's how you learn the most. Not by reading stuff in a textbook or listening to a professor, by actually trying to do it and failing and failing and failing and failing and then but pushing yourself to succeed no matter what despite all the failure. And through that you will learn. You will find the books, the tutorials, the mentors and so forth that are necessary. Speaking of which, there's amazing, just utterly amazing, untapped potential for self-education now through the internet. Uh, you can easily buy cheap books on any subject that you want to learn about easily on Amazon. Used books for just for pennies and dollars, you can buy them easy, easy, easy. Why pay universities ridiculous amounts for, you know, hundreds of dollars for textbooks, thousands of dollars for textbooks when you can buy better books on Amazon much cheaper? This is part of the university grift and the pyramid scheme. They upsell you on these ridiculous textbooks. Um, that don't even teach you the the the best skills. I mean, if you were paying $200 for a textbook that taught you the best skills, okay, I can justify that. But but it doesn't. That's the problem with it. There's much better ways to learn. Right now on the internet, you can find online courses, tutorials, videos, workshops, seminars, training programs, conferences on almost any subject you want to learn. You want to learn business, you want to learn marketing, you want to learn sales, you want to learn psychology, you want to learn life coaching, you want to learn art, you want to learn 3D modeling, you want to learn uh programming, you want to learn engineering, whatever it is, you can find courses for it online. A lot of times for free, sometimes for for money, sometimes you'll have to pay $200, $500, $1,000 for a course. And you might say, "Well, $1,000 for a course? That's a lot. That's that sounds like a ripoff." No, it's not. Actually, it's a much better value than what you're paying in a university. You're so overpaying in a university precisely because it's a captive system. Once you're in the university, they expect you to buy all their books and take all their programs and all their courses. And for that, you're paying tens and even hundreds of thousands of dollars. Investing in your own education is one of the best investments you can make. It's such a good investment that I would I would give you this advice. Don't even worry about how much it costs to buy a book or an online course or a video or a workshop or a seminar. All of this stuff will pay for itself many many times over over the course of your life. A seminar or a workshop, a well- selected one, will teach you so much more than any single college class could. There are a lot of very specialized amazing training programs available. You can find training programs about art, illustration, you know, design, media, marketing, sales, almost anything. Go search for them. Sometimes they cost thousands of dollars. Don't be cheap. Be willing to pay that. Appreciate the value that these training programs are giving you. Conferences. Go to conferences and meet people who are interested in the things that you're interested in. For example, one of the one of the most important things I did uh when I was trying to become a game designer is I went to the game developers conference held in San Francisco every March. Um I remember I went when I was like 23 years old. I was really young. It was actually my first time that I ever flew somewhere outside of like my home city without my parents. Uh so basically I convinced them to buy me a ticket. I said, you know, I need this. this I need to go to this conference cuz maybe I can make some connections and get a job. So my parents agreed. So I they bought me a ticket and I flew out there, got a hotel, cheap hotel, stayed in San Francisco for a week. Uh made some important connections, spoke with other you know designers and developers uh at this conference and I actually there was like a employers booth there. I like section with with employer booths. I went to these booths. I I got business cards from all the you know the people who were all the studios that were looking to hire designers. Um and then uh from from that alone I I I almost landed a game design job from that alone because the connections that I made and I learned a lot about the industry through that. So whatever profession you're going to be a part of, make sure you go to the conferences. It's worth it. Sometimes e- conferences can cost $1,000 or more and then you have to add on top of that, you know, hotels and airfare. It's worth it. It's worth it because you can make important connections, find employers, uh find mentors and uh and that's a powerful way to learn too is through a mentor. Try to find yourself a mentor. Find people who are already successful in the field that you want to be successful in and then see if you can if they're willing to to mentor you. If there's some, you know, low-level work that you can do for them and then in return they they share their wisdom and insights and experience with you. That's a very powerful method. Another method for self-education is modeling. And modeling is sort of an NLP concept. Actually, what it what it means is probably not what you think. Modeling means you find some role model of a professional or somebody who you respect, who's doing what you want to do, who has a certain skill set that you want. And then what you do is you carefully you talk to them, you interview them, and then you you break down exactly what it is that that they do to be successful at what they do. So maybe you find like uh a really successful business person that you admire and then you do an interview with them and then you ask them specifically okay so how did you become so good at business like what kind of books do you read and then how much time do you spend like in the morning on the internet and how much time do you spend on email and how much time do you spend you know doing conference calls and how much time do you spend reading books and how much time do you spend actually with your employees and and you break all this down and then you try to actually replicate that in your own life and then by doing that you can replicate their their results. So there are enormous opportunities for self-education. The the the biggest caveat I have to give here though is that warning it's easy to fool yourself that you're going to educate yourself but then actually be lazy and not do it. So the self-education approach is really only suitable for those who are very ambitious, very driven, very passionate and are willing to discipline themselves. It is hard to discipline yourself. University helps you with that because it gives you a specific schedule. You just go to the classes at the right times and then the rest is sort of easy. But nobody's going to give you a schedule when you're self-educating. Nobody's going to tell you how many pages you should read per day. Nobody's going to tell you which books to read, which courses to take. You can easily just slack off and watch TV or play video games or smoke weed or go have sex or go jerk off or whatever. You can you can do that uh in place of self-education and waste a lot of time. And if that's going to be you, then I'd rather have you go go to a university where at least they will give you some discipline and structure. So you see, it all very much depends upon you. Only you can decide what the right choices are in your life. Do not make the mistake of outsourcing the executive decision-making for your life. Don't ask anybody to tell you what your major should be. Don't ask anybody's opinion about what your major should be. Not your parents, not your friends. It doesn't matter. Only you can know what your major should be. And don't ask others to tell you whether you should go to university or not, or whether you should become a business person or not, or whether you should learn a specific skill set like should I learn computer programming or not? You have to decide that depending upon where you see your life going. So, you need to have a vision of where you're going to go. All of the most important skills that I developed to lead to my success today have come from independent self-education, from reading, from books, from tutorials, from projects. These skills include web development, game development, programming, philosophy, psychology, self-help and personal development, dating and relationships and sexuality, online marketing, sales, business, nutrition, health and fitness, socialization, increasing my self-esteem and confidence, public speaking, and of course the spiritual topics that I talk about these are in a sense some of the most important skills you can learn. And speaking of which, here are a list of skills that you should be laser focused on for the next 5 or 10 years of your life, developing proficiency and expertise with the following skills because these are the skills that are the foundation that everybody needs to really create a fulfilling life for themselves. And these will not be taught to you for the most part in university. That's the worst part. You have to take responsibility for building these yourself. So, business, sales, and marketing. These are hugely important. Even if you think that you don't like business, sales, and marketing. I don't care if you're an artist. I'm a very artistic, creative person. Personally, I don't like business. I don't like sales. I don't like marketing. I hate marketing. I hated marketing with a vengeance. I forced myself to learn it because I knew I had to in order to escape wage slavery. And so, I did. Only thanks to that was it possible. If you don't understand business, sales, and marketing, you're going to be struggling financially for the rest of your life. You're going to be financially clueless and dependent on others for the rest of your life, basically. Next is self-help and personal development. Go to a bookstore, ask for the self-help aisle. Every book and every topic covered in that self-help aisle is full of the most valuable information that you could possibly learn in your life. All of that will transform your life. And if you want a really good uh list of specific books, I I have a uh a list of self-help books that I review over 200 there. These books will transform your whole life. Go check it out um on my website. University does not teach self-help topics at all. It's an embarrassment. It's just a complete travesty. This is one of the most important fields. Don't let others poo poo self-help for you and tell you that it's a it's a bad field full of pseudocience and uh and airy fairy nonsense. Nothing can be further from the truth. The self-help field is one of the most practical fields, which is why it's one of the most successful fields. more self-help books are sold than probably any other books year over year over year. It's not a fad. The reason it is it is this way, it's a multi-billion dollar industry. The reason it is this way is because it's so useful to people. The next skill set is psychology. You need a deep understanding of human psychology and your own psychology. Not in an academic sense, but in a practical sense. What I teach through actualize.org. Emotional mastery is another skill set. learning about your emotions. That's also something I teach through my videos, but you can find books on that as well, mastering your emotions. Then, of course, dating, relationships, and sexuality. There's a lot to learn there, and they're not going to teach that to you in university for sure. Um, language is important. Learning proper and good writing and speaking skills and what they teach you in university is is not at all adequate for the kind of writing and speaking skills you need in the business environment. History is important to learn. I think there are a lot of deep lessons from history and actually history is one of the things that university excels at teaching. But you can also learn history just as well by yourself, not within a university. You don't need to pay tens of thousands of dollars to learn history. You can find online courses and so forth to do that. Uh the next set of skills is spirituality, philosophy, epistemology, and existential questions about reality. You might think that spirituality is some sort of airy fairy thing and it's not important because it's not tangible. Nothing can be further from the truth. you basically, it's impossible basically to have a fulfilling life without a spiritual connection. Your rationality is not going to carry you. I don't care if you're a scientist, if you're a nerd, if you're a computer programmer, you're not going to have a a su truly successful what I consider a successful life without delving into spirituality and philosophical and epistemic topics and existential topics. Topics that have to do with life and death, with uh what is the nature of reality? This is also something I cover in a lot of depth here in actualize.org. And then lastly, uh, awareness, consciousness, and mindfulness. These skills and educating yourself about what awareness is and how it works and what consciousness is and how it works and developing mindfulness skills, meditation skills. Absolutely a gamecher. Crucial. Absolutely crucial. And it's a travesty that none of this is taught in universities at all. Truly, we are in the dark ages. So now the decision is up to you. Do you want to go to university or not? Again, it very much depends on your priorities and who you are. I can't tell you what to do. I've I've shown you the pros and cons of some of the various traps that are here. One last bit of advice I want to give you is that if you're thinking of going the sort of self-education route, be careful. Don't fool yourself. Self-education is difficult. You're going to have to work harder to self-educate yourself than by just going to university. It'll be harder, but also the payoffs will be greater. And if you're going to go down that road, then here's some advice for how to convince your parents of this. See, because your parents probably want you to go to university and they may they may not trust you, for example, with your self-education approach. They also might not trust you with a certain soft major like maybe you want to become a philosophy major or a sociology major. They might not trust you with this. They might want you sort of like the classic Indian family, you know, they might want you to become a lawyer, a doctor, an engineer, something like that. Uh so what do you do in this case? Well, first of all, you're 18 years old, maybe you're 20 years old. At this age that you're at, you're basically a grown adult. You have to start acting like that. You have to stand up for your own passions and your own values. So sometimes your parents will give you bad advice. One of the worst pieces of advice your parents can tell you is to become an accountant when you hate accounting or have no passion for accounting. It's one of the worst pieces of advice. Uh so one of the ways to help get your parents on your side is to show them that even if you're going to choose a major like philosophy or like sociology or whatever that you have a tangible plan for your survival because that's what your parents are really concerned about. See, even more so than you being educated, they just want you to survive. Which is why a lot of these Indian families, you know, will want you to become a doctor or a lawyer because they know that if you're going to be a lawyer, you're going to survive without much difficulty. But if you become a philosopher or an artist or a filmmaker or a game designer, then they think that you're probably going to be starving than asking them for money. So you can assuage some of those fears by coming to your parents with a practical plan of how you're going to be developing your most essential and important survival skills separate from your university education. Whether you go to university or don't, I still recommend the self-education approach. Even if you go to university, that's not enough. That's not enough to succeed in life. Even if you go to university, you're going to still have to be developing most of these important skills by yourself. Nobody is going to teach you self-help or meditation or spirituality or business and marketing skills at university. And these are crucial skills that you're going to need and they're going to pay dividends for you for the rest of your life. So for example, one of the things that I did when I switched to philosophy is I told my parents that yes, I'm switching to philosophy, but don't worry because I'm going to be seriously developing practical skills in game development and other things that are going to I'm going to be building a portfolio. I'm going to be building, you know, my resume and developing these tangible skills, programming skills, web development skills, all these skills that I'm going to use to get a job. So, don't worry that I'm taking philosophy. That helps. Um, and then of course more than just talking about it, you got to demonstrate it. Your parents have to see that you're serious about it and that you're doing it every single day. It's not enough just to say it and then go play video games all day or smoke weed or, you know, hang out with your friends all day. You got to actually be serious. Now is the time to be serious. You're an adult. Start acting like it. If you want your parents and others around you to treat you like an adult, if you want to be able to drive a car and to buy booze and buy weed and this sorts of stuff, and you want people to take you seriously, start acting seriously. See, the problem is you want people to treat you like an adult, but then you still behave like a child. It's time to get serious. It's time to take the growing up process seriously. It's time to take life seriously. Time to start taking life seriously. Time to start taking your own development seriously. Stop stop just expecting others to grow you. That's what was happening through the first 12 years of your education through elementary school, middle school, and high school. Basically, the adults in charge were trying to serve you for your own benefit to teach you things that they thought you might need later in your life. That's what was happening throughout the first 12 years of school. And you just went along with their plan. The whole beauty of education is to finally break free of all the stuff that you were told you had to learn. And now start to learn the stuff that you really care about and do that for the rest of your life. Education does not end after university. Education only begins after university and it continues for the rest of your life. And then you can use me as a resource to help with that because the whole point of my channel and actualize.org is to is to teach you for the rest of your life to give you insights the most powerful and practical insights that you need to transform your life. So, as we're wrapping up here, I want to give you four four key key lessons specifically for you youngsters and uh those in the college range that you need to remember. So first lesson is clarity, clarity, clarity, clarity. Keep clarifying what you want out of life, what your passions are, who you are. Secondly, tailor your life to who you are, your unique strengths and passions. Don't want a life that everybody else has. want a life that only you can have, a unique life, a life [snorts] that's custom fit for you, that fits you like a glove. That's what all of your executive decision-m should be geared towards right now. The third point is lifelong learning. Commit to lifelong learning and start doing it from today onwards. Do it every single day. at least 1 hour a day, maybe two hours, maybe four hours. And if you're doing this in lie of university, then 6 hours, 8 hours a day. And the fourth key is be proactive about this whole process. Don't just sit back and think that things will just work out. Things will not automatically work out. Success will not come to you automatically. A job will not come to you automatically. A great career will not come to you automatically. A life purpose will not come to you automatically. All of this requires serious effort, discipline, and determination, and commitment on your part. You have to be out there hunting for it like a pig hunting for truffles. That's the only way you're going to find a truffle. It's not just going to magically somehow just land on your dinner plate. All right. Now, I want to recommend a couple of my uh videos that would be very helpful for you to watch after watching this if you've got value out of this one. Uh first, I have a two-part series called Life Advice for Young People, parts one, part two. Check that out. That's perfect for you. Also, I have one related to this which is called life advice for high school and college students. Go check that one out. Uh I have another one called How to Escape Wage Slavery. Go check that one out. And then of course I have hundreds more that are also going to be very valuable for you. And uh I have the life purpose course. It's a paid course. It costs some money, but given what you're going to pay for it and the value that it would give and the clarity would give you in your life, the life purpose course is all about clarity. It's 25 hours of helping you to clarify what you want out of your life and then how to construct a plan to get it. It's very practical, has lots of exercises and techniques, gives you resources and books and just it I mean this is the complete package. You couldn't have asked for a better course if you're unclear about the trajectory of your life. This this course will change your whole life. So consider investing in that if you want. All right, that's it. I'm done here. Good luck with your decisions. Good luck with whether you go to college or don't go to college. Uh I hope that regardless of your choice, you choose to invest seriously in your life, invest seriously in your self-education and you don't confuse don't confuse now education in the university system with serious self-education. These are two totally different things. All right? You're only going to get from life what you put into it. And remember that institutions and bureaucracies are designed for the lowest common denominator. They are not designed for the most ambitious and self-actualizing humans because we're too rare. Most people are happy being sheep. If you want to rise above being a sheep, then you're going to have to invent your own methods. You're not going to find readymade solutions. You're going to have to invent them yourself. But that's also what makes life so interesting and exciting is inventing those methods. All right, that's it here. Please remember to click that like button for me and come check out actualize.org. There you will find the extra resources. You will find my book list which is a great way to begin your self-education. In fact, with my book list, I guarantee you this, if you read the over 200 books on my book list over the next five or 10 years, just that information alone will completely transform your life and will be 10 times more valuable than anything you can learn in university. I promise you that. But here's the caveat. You have to read all those books and then you have to actually apply everything in those books. You have to apply it. It's not enough just to read it. You have to apply it. So, check that out. My life purpose course is there. You can find that as well. You can find my blog where I post exclusive content. You can find the forum where you can chat with others who are struggling through similar issues like you. And the last thing I'll say is that [laughter] if you are looking to build an amazing life, you have hit upon the motherload right here with actualize.org. You're not going to find uh a more transformative, comprehensive, and deep set of teachings anywhere online than what I'm offering. Of course, take that with a great assault. I am self-biased here. Uh it serves my interest to say so, but um I think my content is pretty good. I think it's pretty deep. I think it's pretty broad. I think that if you can't build a good life from the stuff that I'm talking about, then something's wrong. Something's wrong with your head. [laughter] It's all right here for you. And if you don't get it from me, of course, I also I don't just monopolize uh my teachings. Of course, I also refer you to other experts and other teachers out there. I recommend many different great teachers and thinkers and experts and enlightened masters and meditation teachers and business leaders and whatever, you know, role models. Uh so my approach is very multi-perspectible. I'm not just teaching you some one ideology. Actualizing is not an ideology really. It's a it's a meta survey of of thousands of different teachings and teachers and picking the best parts from all of them. See, I don't discriminate. I don't just study western stuff. I study I study eastern stuff. I study shic stuff. I study spiritual stuff. I study new age stuff. I I study hard scientific stuff. All of it. Cuz what I'm looking for is the best of all of it. I'm not loyal to anyone field or anyone technique or anyone method or anyone's school or anyone ideology. And I recommend that you also adopt this multi-perspectal meta approach in your self-education. And you'll be amazed at how far you can get with that.
