---
title: "Transcript: Whatever Doesn't Kill You Makes You Stronger - True or False?"
search:
  exclude: true
---

# Transcript: Whatever Doesn't Kill You Makes You Stronger - True or False?

**YouTube:** [Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zxMTekwz1HM)

---

Hey, this is Leo for actualize.org and in this video I want to talk about a classic adage which goes, "Whatever doesn't kill you makes you stronger." Now, is that true or is that false? All right. So, let's talk about that. Is it true or is it false that whatever doesn't kill you makes you stronger? Before we dig into that, just to let you know, I'm standing here in the center of Toronto, downtown Toronto. I've got the CN Tower behind me, but in front of it, I've got this giant locomotive, which is part of this uh railroad museum that they have right in the downtown area. Kind of cool. So, I thought I'd shoot a video here. But, I've been thinking lately about this issue of, you know, whatever doesn't kill you makes you stronger. I want to believe that, right? And uh I I tend to tell that to people as advice, you know, when they're going through something difficult. I just uh I just tend to say, you know, use it as as fuel for the road. Use it as fuel to keep you moving, keep you going. Even if something bad happens to you, there's always a silver lining to it, etc., etc. Well, here in Toronto, I've been going through a pretty bad pretty bad legal trial. And uh that's been triggering me emotionally quite a bit, more so than uh I've been triggered in a long long long time. In fact, uh, just the other day, I might say I had one of my most brutal days of my life, spending eight hours in the courtroom. So, going through that and some of the emotions that came up for me, I've really started to think about this. Is this situation going to make me stronger, or is it actually going to make me weaker? Is it possible to have a situation that's so bad that you still live through it, but in the end, you come out crippled? Maybe not physically crippled, but I'm talking about emotionally crippled. And what about that? Is it possible for situations to emotionally cripple you? And if it is, and it's possible to actually get yourself involved in a mess that will leave you worse off in life than you were before you got into it, then does that mean we should be more conservative with the kinds of decisions that we make in life? the kind of things that we undertake, the kind of projects that we start, the kind of businesses maybe we get ourselves involved with or the kind of relationships we go into or anything else like that. Maybe relationships, marriages, divorces. So, here's here's my opinion on this. Um, I think in the in the short term, in the short term, you can definitely get yourself involved in a in a in a pickle and you can definitely kind of paint yourself into a corner and maybe it's with a business or with a relationship that turns into a marriage or something else. You can do something so stupid with your life or with your finances that it's going to take you a long time to recover from it. So, this can be a very catastrophic mistake. And yet even in the short run and even in the medium run if that mistake is very bad it will certainly hinder your performance and it might get you to dou start doubting yourself. It might make you fearful. It might make you cowardly. It might make you retreat into your shell so you don't go out there and you don't uh live life to the fullest the way that you wanted to. So in that sense, you know, you got to be careful about about some of the stuff you get yourself involved with because it can it can really cripple your life. On the other hand, I'm also I also comes to mind all the scenarios where people have made really really stupid decisions, have really fucked up their lives, whether through drugs or getting themselves involved with a marriage that then breaks up and then they lose uh a large chunk of their money or, you know, getting scammed in some sort of Ponzi scheme or maybe getting getting frauded out of some money because of some business transaction didn't go their way or just some bad luck, maybe a death in family, a death of someone that's really close to you, a child, uh a spouse, a loved one, a parent. Yeah. So, uh so those those really tough cases, what's going to happen is that basically in the short and medium term, they're going to feel very very bad. They're going to feel very painful, and you're just going to have to kind of like give yourself some breathing room to kind of grieve through it, work your way through it, kind of uh have the fears come out and and play that whole game. And so that's going to that's going to have to happen. And uh in that time as that's happening to you, it's starting to snow here. Is as that's happening to you, you are going to feel like this is something that's very miserable. And you're going to feel like this is something that should not be in your life and that you are cursed with misfortune for having this. That's certainly how I felt the last few days about this trial is uh I felt like uh I would give anything to undo it. I would give anything to just like pull myself out so I don't have to deal with it. I wish this never happened. I wish I made some different decisions in the past so that I wouldn't have gotten into this trial in the first place. Okay. Uh fair enough. But uh but even today, I'm feeling I'm feeling much better about it. Uh I think that it's it's it's still tough. You know, you might you might make the case and say, "Well, what about like a rape? What about a near-death experience? What about if someone like kidnaps you and starts torturing you?" Like in that kind of scenario, is it better for that to not have happened? Isn't that better? I mean, doesn't that make sense? Wouldn't it be nicer to just like cut out all that traumatic shit? Uh or like if you lose someone close to you, isn't it better that you didn't lose that person? You know, I don't know. I think ultimately actually I think there is a a deep core truth and I think this is a nichi nichi Frederick Nisha said this is that whatever doesn't kill you truly makes you stronger. And uh and that's because yeah, that doesn't mean that it's going to feel good in the moment. That doesn't mean it's going to feel good a week or a month afterwards. But ultimately what it does is it builds a certain uh psychological resilience within you and especially those really trying times. Those can be times that really define your character. Those can be times that then create new sources of motivation that you can use to go out there and take on big projects that you wouldn't have otherwise done. Those can be those can be really powerful life-shaping events and those kind of catastrophic failures whether you lose a business or a loved one or something like that. You know, it it makes you so much more so much more appreciative of what you have, so much more appreciative of what you had. And then in the future when you go out and you still become successful, you still, you know, you're still going to take action and do new things and find new people to love and get into relationships and have new marriages. Uh, what it's going to do is it's going to make you much more grounded and stable. That's what I feel like right now cuz I went through this brutal trial the other day. And now I feel like everything else is so easy. It's like it's so easy. I was bitching and moaning about having to come out here and like shoot. And it is really cold out here. So, my fingers are really numb. In fact, a video I was just shooting on the seashore here in Toronto. It got so cold. I I was literally worried that I would have frostbite cuz I was shooting a video and my my fingers were I couldn't feel my fingers cuz I was out there so long in the cold to get the right shot. And it feels like this is heaven. This is heaven compared to what I went through yesterday. So to me, this is like, oh, this is so nice. This is so nice. It makes everything else so much easier. And I think that that's that's literally what what is going on here is that, you know, your psychology becomes more robust. It's kind of like uh like skin, right? When you've got when you've got uh sensitive skin and uh you keep puncturing it and you keep uh you keep putting wear and tear on it, what happens is it starts to build up a callous and the skin starts to harden up and toughen up and extra layers of skin grow and it builds up a callus. So then in the future when you're poking and proddding at that skin, it doesn't bleed. It doesn't rip quite as easily. It's very resilient. And that's what's that's what's literally also happening with your psychology as you're going through life and experiencing tough events. If your life is just all smooth sailing and you have good luck and money just comes your way and you happen to get into awesome relationships and everything just happens to be working out in your business. If that's your life, I mean, wow, that's uh first of all, congratulations. You're extremely lucky. You're very rare to have that. But uh also, you better pray every single day that that luck continues because you know what? If one day it runs out, man, you're gonna be in a world and world of pain because that skin basically have such a thin layer of skin that anything can puncture it. And basically what you have to be literally doing is praying for good luck so that nothing comes along and punctures it because if it does, it's going to rip apart very easily and you're going to basically bleed out. On the other hand, if you're facing a kind of life where you have horrible luck, bad relationships, you get involved with the wrong people, bad business, you're losing money everywhere, just all this stuff keeps happening to you. I mean, yes, that's tough. And sure, I would not want to trade places with you. But on the other hand, you're building up you're building up a lot of psychological resiliency. That tough skin, that callus is building up in your mind. And that's actually making you very very resourceful, make making you very powerful. From that place, you can actually accomplish amazing things. And many people, many celebrities, many politicians, many many big movers and shakers in life, entrepreneurs, people that have really influenced society in a positive way. They've come from exactly these kinds of places. And the reason that is is because once they go through that trauma, once they go through all the trials and tribulations, they come out with a very thick skin, very robust mentality, a psychology that will let them handle the worst of what the world can throw at you. And sometimes the world will throw will throw a really hard punch. And if you're not ready for it, if you've never been hit by a hard punch in your life, then that's going to that's going to really sting you. And a lot of times it will totally derail you. Uh, no pun intended. it will derail you off your tracks and off your course in life. Whereas, if you're if you're suffering a little bit here and there, that's actually good. That's actually how it should be. So, ultimately, I think that you have to you have to just kind of like push through, push through, push through, stay on your track, stay on course. And yes, you're going to have tough times. You're going to have times when you think you're going to you have to quit. You're going to have tough tough times that you think you wouldn't have ever wanted on yourself and that you just wish could have been taken back. But, you know, let some time pass. Don't be too quick to judge. If it's a really traumatic event, let a couple months pass. Let a couple years pass and see what happened to you. Maybe you can analyze your past and see you probably have a couple of traumatic events you can already analyze. What you're going to see is that actually you're probably going to be very grateful for the fact that you have that experience and now that is a foundation on which you can build your life. You can build your grand castle. Right? All right. So, that's it. That's what I have to say about whatever doesn't kill you makes you stronger. Ultimately, I think it's a very, very true statement. Maybe I would make an exception for very extreme circumstances like if you were kidnapped and tortured or raped, but I think that there's even a case to be made that even in those situations, there is a there's still a silver silver lining and that you can actually use those situations to to create a very powerful kind of life. So, don't get discouraged if you're going through something like that. I just went through a traumatic event just the other day with my courtroom trial. But now I'm feeling feeling all right. Not too worried right now, even though I still don't know the result of it. So, we'll see. But here, I'm going to go right now and check out the CN Tower if they'll let me up there and get a whole view of the city of Toronto. That'll be cool cuz I'm flying out of here tomorrow morning. All right, this is Leo. I'm signing off. Go ahead, post me your comments down below. Please like this. Please share it. And of course, come check out actualize.org. org. Sign up to our newsletter. I'm releasing new videos, new articles, other goodies for you every single week about how to self-actualize, how to master your own psychology so that you can create an extraordinary kind of life. A lot of tips, a lot of tricks, a lot of strategies, the big picture understanding of how to do that. All right, you don't want to miss that stuff out. Sign up, follow along, cuz I'm releasing new material all the time. And I find that it takes it takes a while for your brain to catch on to this stuff. So, one video is nice. You can use it right off the bat. I hope you can get some valuable insight from it. But ultimately, sign up and follow along because that's what's really going to transform your life. So, sign up right now. Hey, this is Leo for actualize.org and in this video I want to talk about a classic adage which goes, "Whatever doesn't kill you makes you stronger." Now, is that true or is that false? All right. So, let's talk about that. Is it true or is it false that whatever doesn't kill you makes you stronger? Before we dig into that, just to let you know, I'm standing here in the center of Toronto, downtown Toronto. I've got the CN Tower behind me, but in front of it, I've got this giant locomotive, which is part of this uh railroad museum that they have right in the downtown area. Kind of cool. So, I thought I'd shoot a video here. But, I've been thinking lately about this issue of, you know, whatever doesn't kill you makes you stronger. I want to believe that, right? And uh I I tend to tell that to people as advice, you know, when they're going through something difficult. I just uh I just tend to say, you know, use it as as fuel for the road. Use it as fuel to keep you moving, keep you going. Even if something bad happens to you, there's always a silver lining to it, etc., etc. Well, here in Toronto, I've been going through a pretty bad pretty bad legal trial. And uh that's been triggering me emotionally quite a bit, more so than uh I've been triggered in a long long long time. In fact, uh, just the other day, I might say I had one of my most brutal days of my life, spending eight hours in the courtroom. So, going through that and some of the emotions that came up for me, I've really started to think about this. Is this situation going to make me stronger, or is it actually going to make me weaker? Is it possible to have a situation that's so bad that you still live through it, but in the end, you come out crippled? Maybe not physically crippled, but I'm talking about emotionally crippled. And what about that? Is it possible for situations to emotionally cripple you? And if it is, and it's possible to actually get yourself involved in a mess that will leave you worse off in life than you were before you got into it, then does that mean we should be more conservative with the kinds of decisions that we make in life? the kind of things that we undertake, the kind of projects that we start, the kind of businesses maybe we get ourselves involved with or the kind of relationships we go into or anything else like that. Maybe relationships, marriages, divorces. So, here's here's my opinion on this. Um, I think in the in the short term, in the short term, you can definitely get yourself involved in a in a in a pickle and you can definitely kind of paint yourself into a corner and maybe it's with a business or with a relationship that turns into a marriage or something else. You can do something so stupid with your life or with your finances that it's going to take you a long time to recover from it. So, this can be a very catastrophic mistake. And yet even in the short run and even in the medium run if that mistake is very bad it will certainly hinder your performance and it might get you to dou start doubting yourself. It might make you fearful. It might make you cowardly. It might make you retreat into your shell so you don't go out there and you don't uh live life to the fullest the way that you wanted to. So in that sense, you know, you got to be careful about about some of the stuff you get yourself involved with because it can it can really cripple your life. On the other hand, I'm also I also comes to mind all the scenarios where people have made really really stupid decisions, have really fucked up their lives, whether through drugs or getting themselves involved with a marriage that then breaks up and then they lose uh a large chunk of their money or, you know, getting scammed in some sort of Ponzi scheme or maybe getting getting frauded out of some money because of some business transaction didn't go their way or just some bad luck, maybe a death in family, a death of someone that's really close to you, a child, uh a spouse, a loved one, a parent. Yeah. So, uh so those those really tough cases, what's going to happen is that basically in the short and medium term, they're going to feel very very bad. They're going to feel very painful, and you're just going to have to kind of like give yourself some breathing room to kind of grieve through it, work your way through it, kind of uh have the fears come out and and play that whole game. And so that's going to that's going to have to happen. And uh in that time as that's happening to you, it's starting to snow here. Is as that's happening to you, you are going to feel like this is something that's very miserable. And you're going to feel like this is something that should not be in your life and that you are cursed with misfortune for having this. That's certainly how I felt the last few days about this trial is uh I felt like uh I would give anything to undo it. I would give anything to just like pull myself out so I don't have to deal with it. I wish this never happened. I wish I made some different decisions in the past so that I wouldn't have gotten into this trial in the first place. Okay. Uh fair enough. But uh but even today, I'm feeling I'm feeling much better about it. Uh I think that it's it's it's still tough. You know, you might you might make the case and say, "Well, what about like a rape? What about a near-death experience? What about if someone like kidnaps you and starts torturing you?" Like in that kind of scenario, is it better for that to not have happened? Isn't that better? I mean, doesn't that make sense? Wouldn't it be nicer to just like cut out all that traumatic shit? Uh or like if you lose someone close to you, isn't it better that you didn't lose that person? You know, I don't know. I think ultimately actually I think there is a a deep core truth and I think this is a nichi nichi Frederick Nisha said this is that whatever doesn't kill you truly makes you stronger. And uh and that's because yeah, that doesn't mean that it's going to feel good in the moment. That doesn't mean it's going to feel good a week or a month afterwards. But ultimately what it does is it builds a certain uh psychological resilience within you and especially those really trying times. Those can be times that really define your character. Those can be times that then create new sources of motivation that you can use to go out there and take on big projects that you wouldn't have otherwise done. Those can be those can be really powerful life-shaping events and those kind of catastrophic failures whether you lose a business or a loved one or something like that. You know, it it makes you so much more so much more appreciative of what you have, so much more appreciative of what you had. And then in the future when you go out and you still become successful, you still, you know, you're still going to take action and do new things and find new people to love and get into relationships and have new marriages. Uh, what it's going to do is it's going to make you much more grounded and stable. That's what I feel like right now cuz I went through this brutal trial the other day. And now I feel like everything else is so easy. It's like it's so easy. I was bitching and moaning about having to come out here and like shoot. And it is really cold out here. So, my fingers are really numb. In fact, a video I was just shooting on the seashore here in Toronto. It got so cold. I I was literally worried that I would have frostbite cuz I was shooting a video and my my fingers were I couldn't feel my fingers cuz I was out there so long in the cold to get the right shot. And it feels like this is heaven. This is heaven compared to what I went through yesterday. So to me, this is like, oh, this is so nice. This is so nice. It makes everything else so much easier. And I think that that's that's literally what what is going on here is that, you know, your psychology becomes more robust. It's kind of like uh like skin, right? When you've got when you've got uh sensitive skin and uh you keep puncturing it and you keep uh you keep putting wear and tear on it, what happens is it starts to build up a callous and the skin starts to harden up and toughen up and extra layers of skin grow and it builds up a callus. So then in the future when you're poking and proddding at that skin, it doesn't bleed. It doesn't rip quite as easily. It's very resilient. And that's what's that's what's literally also happening with your psychology as you're going through life and experiencing tough events. If your life is just all smooth sailing and you have good luck and money just comes your way and you happen to get into awesome relationships and everything just happens to be working out in your business. If that's your life, I mean, wow, that's uh first of all, congratulations. You're extremely lucky. You're very rare to have that. But uh also, you better pray every single day that that luck continues because you know what? If one day it runs out, man, you're gonna be in a world and world of pain because that skin basically have such a thin layer of skin that anything can puncture it. And basically what you have to be literally doing is praying for good luck so that nothing comes along and punctures it because if it does, it's going to rip apart very easily and you're going to basically bleed out. On the other hand, if you're facing a kind of life where you have horrible luck, bad relationships, you get involved with the wrong people, bad business, you're losing money everywhere, just all this stuff keeps happening to you. I mean, yes, that's tough. And sure, I would not want to trade places with you. But on the other hand, you're building up you're building up a lot of psychological resiliency. That tough skin, that callus is building up in your mind. And that's actually making you very very resourceful, make making you very powerful. From that place, you can actually accomplish amazing things. And many people, many celebrities, many politicians, many many big movers and shakers in life, entrepreneurs, people that have really influenced society in a positive way. They've come from exactly these kinds of places. And the reason that is is because once they go through that trauma, once they go through all the trials and tribulations, they come out with a very thick skin, very robust mentality, a psychology that will let them handle the worst of what the world can throw at you. And sometimes the world will throw will throw a really hard punch. And if you're not ready for it, if you've never been hit by a hard punch in your life, then that's going to that's going to really sting you. And a lot of times it will totally derail you. Uh, no pun intended. it will derail you off your tracks and off your course in life. Whereas, if you're if you're suffering a little bit here and there, that's actually good. That's actually how it should be. So, ultimately, I think that you have to you have to just kind of like push through, push through, push through, stay on your track, stay on course. And yes, you're going to have tough times. You're going to have times when you think you're going to you have to quit. You're going to have tough tough times that you think you wouldn't have ever wanted on yourself and that you just wish could have been taken back. But, you know, let some time pass. Don't be too quick to judge. If it's a really traumatic event, let a couple months pass. Let a couple years pass and see what happened to you. Maybe you can analyze your past and see you probably have a couple of traumatic events you can already analyze. What you're going to see is that actually you're probably going to be very grateful for the fact that you have that experience and now that is a foundation on which you can build your life. You can build your grand castle. Right? All right. So, that's it. That's what I have to say about whatever doesn't kill you makes you stronger. Ultimately, I think it's a very, very true statement. Maybe I would make an exception for very extreme circumstances like if you were kidnapped and tortured or raped, but I think that there's even a case to be made that even in those situations, there is a there's still a silver silver lining and that you can actually use those situations to to create a very powerful kind of life. So, don't get discouraged if you're going through something like that. I just went through a traumatic event just the other day with my courtroom trial. But now I'm feeling feeling all right. Not too worried right now, even though I still don't know the result of it. So, we'll see. But here, I'm going to go right now and check out the CN Tower if they'll let me up there and get a whole view of the city of Toronto. That'll be cool cuz I'm flying out of here tomorrow morning. All right, this is Leo. I'm signing off. Go ahead, post me your comments down below. Please like this. Please share it. And of course, come check out actualize.org. org. Sign up to our newsletter. I'm releasing new videos, new articles, other goodies for you every single week about how to self-actualize, how to master your own psychology so that you can create an extraordinary kind of life. A lot of tips, a lot of tricks, a lot of strategies, the big picture understanding of how to do that. All right, you don't want to miss that stuff out. Sign up, follow along, cuz I'm releasing new material all the time. And I find that it takes it takes a while for your brain to catch on to this stuff. So, one video is nice. You can use it right off the bat. I hope you can get some valuable insight from it. But ultimately, sign up and follow along because that's what's really going to transform your life. So, sign up right now.
