---
title: "Transcript: Epistemic Responsibility"
search:
  exclude: true
---

# Transcript: Epistemic Responsibility

**YouTube:** [Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W5kvXJNMMM4)

---

[music] A quick announcement before we start. I just released a podcast/con conversation/interview with a YouTube channel called the Demystify SAI podcast. It's both a podcast and a YouTube channel. I'm going to have links down below. It's like a two and a half hour long conversation that I had. This podcast is about um science and science related topics. I was interviewed and talked with uh a couple of PhDs, academics. So, they interview scientists, academics, this kind of heady, nerdy type of stuff. So, we had an interesting conversation. Go check that out. I'll have links down below. It's uh it's actually in two parts, part one and part two. So, that should be interesting to you. And uh now, let's get into the main topic, which is epistemic responsibility. So the first thing you need to notice is that people are profoundly irresponsible in general. So that that's just the topic of general responsibility which I've talked about in the past. I have episodes about responsibility and I need to do some more episodes about responsibility in general. But here we need to specifically focus on epistemic responsibility because there are quite a few human beings who are responsible. They're responsible in business. They're responsible in family. They're responsible in academia, whatever, right? They're responsible professionally. But even though you've got that level of responsibility, you're going to miss epistemic responsibility. So epistemic responsibility is extremely rare. Even most very responsible people are utterly irresponsible epistemically. So that's why we need to focus on this specifically here so much. It's not enough just to talk about responsibility. because people are so epistemically irresponsible that when I talk about responsibility in general, it will never even enter into your mind that the most important aspect of responsibility is epistemic responsibility. So, we're going to spend the next couple hours discussing why it's so important so that you can really see the consequences of this. Epistemic irresponsibility leads to numerous dysfunctions both individual and collective and they add up gradually over your life. That's why it's so insidious because it's not obvious, right? It's not obvious. You can be irresponsible in business or with your relationships or with your family or with your sex life and that will become very quickly the pain and suffering of that will become obvious to you. But when you're epistemically irresponsible, that's much more subtle, right? And your life is going to start to take wrong turns and you're going to start to suffer and there's going to be problems in your life, but you're not going to be aware of them. You're not going to trace them back down to the root, to the source, which is your epistemic irresponsibility. So, epistemic responsibility is a is a key cornerstone principle for correct living, proper living. Why is that? Because as I've said in my previous episode about truth, why truth is the most important value, truth is the highest value. So epistemic responsibility honors the highest value, which is truth. Truth is necessary for goodness and for healthy living and for healthy society. Notice how toxic and unhealthy many aspects of our culture and society are today. And you can track all of that toxicity ultimately back down to epistemic irresponsibility because as we've said in that truth episode uh not caring about truth ends in corruption. In order to have a proper life or to even relate properly to anything, to other people, in business, with art, anything really to have a proper relationship with that thing, it has to be based on truth and reality. You need to ultimately have a proper relationship to reality itself. Accurate understanding is necessary to navigate reality. Wrong understanding leads to wrong action. And without epistemic responsibility, self-deception, fantasy, and selfbias gets completely out of control. The only thing in any way standing between you and selfdeception is epistemic responsibility. And even then, that by itself does not guarantee your safety. So, I want you to look around and notice that humanity is insanely epistemically irresponsible. And this is the cause of most of mankind's problems. Ultimately, epistemology is just not a value that society or culture holds. It's not something that's taught to you in school. They teach it to you a little bit in university, but not nearly enough. Not nearly enough because everybody is lost in survival. Epistemic responsibility is one of those subtle things that no one will force upon you. You won't even know that you're missing it. No one around you will care if you're missing it. No one will remind you of its importance except maybe for me. Epistemic responsibility is a self-discipline. You have to recognize its importance and enforce it upon yourself. No one's going to enforce it for you. The collective will not do it for you. Notice that all of your family and friends are epistemically irresponsible and that's why their lives are so messed up ultimately. Now let's take one step back and just ask the question, what is responsibility in general? What does it mean to be responsible? It's to be in charge of a thing, to take ownership over a thing. To have a sense of duty towards something. A sense of duty to get things right. to make things good. This kind of attitude of if I don't do it, it won't get done. That's what ownership means. Think of an irresponsible person. What are they like? Contemplate that. And then do the opposite. Contemplate what is responsibility and contemplate why is responsibility so important? So now let's define what is epistemic responsibility. What does that mean? It means to take complete ownership over understanding reality. To have a sense of duty to improve your knowing process to make it the best that it can be. It is your responsibility to make sense of reality. No one else will do it for you. No teacher, no guru, no book. You have to do it. If you don't do it, it won't be done and you will be self-deceived. to take responsibility is to understand the significance of what I just said and to understand just like we're talking about the trajectory of your entire life, your entire relationship to reality, right? This is so fundamental. It doesn't get any more fundamental than this. This is the foundation of of existence. If you get this wrong, everything else in your life cannot be correct. When you actually come to grips with that in your mind, then you see, oh my god, this is so significant, so important. Once you see the importance of it, then you're going to take it seriously. Then you're going to devote the necessary time and energy and attention and care that this requires. Right? See, what most people do is they just kind of sloppily wing it. They just kind of think that, well, you know, I'm alive. life is relatively comfortable right now and I'm just going to carry on doing fun stuff, you know, playing games and having my relationships and doing my family stuff and you know, yeah, sometimes life is difficult and all that, but generally, you know, if you're living in a first world democracy, it's life is not too bad. And so, you just kind of go with it and you just kind of stumble your way through life epistemically, so to speak. And you might take responsibility in certain areas, like, you know, professionally, you're very responsible. Maybe with your family life, you're very responsible to your to your kids or to your parents or whatever. But that's not your primary responsibility. Your primary responsibility is to understand what the fuck is going on. What is anything at all? If you don't understand that, if you misunderstand what's going on, what anything is, then everything else you're going to do is going to be corrupted by that. Do you see? Epistemic responsibility is the duty to avoid self-deception and to align yourself with truth. Aligning yourself with truth is not something you do once. It's something you do constantly. It's a it's a daily practice. Every day you're aligning yourself with truth a little bit more and a little bit more and a little bit more. That's if you're living properly. And if you're living sloppily, irresponsibly, then you don't even care about this, right? This is not even on your radar screen of concerns. You're concerned about how to get laid or you're concerned about how to make money or you're concerned about some family problem. This is why epistemic responsibility is so difficult is because it's it's subtle and it's so abstract and you don't see the consequences of it immediately in your life. It doesn't feel so tangible. And so other things, other problems in your life, you know, just basic survival, family stuff, whatever, professional stuff, career stuff, money problems, relationship problems, all of that hijacks your attention such that it's like you might think, well, Leo, you know, I got to pay the bills. I don't even have to I got to worry about my children, you know, uh, and taking them to the doctor and stuff like that. I don't even have time to think about these heady, abstract philosophical things. Yes. And that's why your life is going to continue to get worse and worse because you're treating this as a luxury. It's like, oh, philosophy is just this luxury that people It's like, no, no, no. You don't understand. You're not understanding how serious this is. We're talking about your entire relationship to reality. That's even more important than your relationship to your children or to your parents or to your spouse. It truly is because you will lose your children. You will lose your parents. you will lose your spouse. These are all contingent things. None of them will be around forever. The only thing that is a constant in your life, the one constant, you know, you're going to lose your job, you're going to lose your business, you're going to quit or you're going to sell it or whatever. All of that will change. You will be in university, you will be out of university, you will be in academia, you will be out of academia, you will be a scientist, you will stop being a scientist. All of that is contingent. None of that is fundamental. The only fundamental thing is your relationship to reality itself. your comprehension of what it is. You have to see that when you misunderstand what things are, this profoundly affects your results when navigating and dealing with those things, right? If you misunderstand what relationship is, if you misunderstand what communication is, if you misunderstand what science is, if you misunderstand what religion is, if you misunderstand what spirituality is, if you misunderstand what the self is, if you misunderstand what other is, if you misunderstand what consciousness is, if you misunderstand what reality is, if you misunderstand what money is, if you misunderstand what happiness is, what pain and suffering are, >> [snorts] >> Epistemic responsibility is to value truth and accurate understanding of reality. Again, this is about priorities. Getting your priorities straight. People just have the wrong priorities. It's so simple, so basic. You know, getting your priorities right. What should be your priorities? How do you know what the right priorities are? Do you just believe me? Leo said, "My priority should be epistemic responsibility." Well, how do I know that's true? See, that's good. You shouldn't just accept what I'm telling you. You should sit there and question, is what he's saying actually true? Can I come up with something that's more important than epistemic responsibility? And if you can, well, then do that thing. Epistemic responsibility is to care about truth for its own sake, not as a utility. This is a big mistake people make is that they treat truth as a utility which means that well yeah Leo of course I care about truth but you only care about it to the extent that it does something for you because you need to care about it for you know for doing something successfully somewhere but then after that you stop caring about it. See that's irresponsible. Epistemic responsibility is to take ownership over sensemaking to have a duty to truthful sensemaking. You take truth uh you take sensemaking as sacred just that kind of attitude. I'm really talking about an attitude here. Having the right attitude is everything in life. When you approach things with the wrong attitude, nothing that you do can be correct. Because the attitude is what's wrong. For example, uh what do I mean attitude? Like for example, if if you're a guy and you approach relationships with women as with the attitude of how can I just get sex and that's your whole attitude? You only view women through the filter of sex. See, you can never have a healthy relationship with women that way. Never. Nothing you do, no technique will fix that because your attitude is wrong. You need to realize, oh, my attitude is completely wrong. I can't just treat people as sex objects. Epistemic responsibility means that you cannot manipulate data and facts. You can't ignore difficult truths. You can't avoid considering other perspectives. You can't be close-minded. You can't live in an echo chamber. You can't make up whatever serves your survival, whatever is convenient to you. You can't just believe whatever sounds good or feels good. It also means that you have to care about the consistency of your mind. You care about contradictions and double standards and you care about bias. You're always mindful of bias, how biased the mind is. It's also the duty to follow truth wherever it leads. And sometimes truth will lead you into difficult painful territory and you have to go there even though it doesn't feel good in the moment. It's to care about intellectual integrity. It's to say no to fantasy illusion and bias. So that's how I define epistemic responsibility. And you can see how rare this is. Most people don't take this kind of responsibility. It just seems too abstract, too intangible, too impractical. What difference does it make if you're epistmically responsible? You know, like it's not going to ruin next week for you. It's not going to ruin next month for you. It's probably not even going to ruin next year for you. But a decade down the road, two decades down the road, it all adds up. >> [snorts] >> Understanding reality is the most important thing in life. If you misunderstand what reality is, everything else is going to go wrong. Can you see that? Now, let's go into a deeper discussion of what it means to take epistemic responsibility. So, this is going to be a list long list of of different features. The first point on this list is is that you recognize the critical importance of good sensemaking. You understand what happens if you stop caring. Just caring. Don't underestimate how important just caring is. Right? A lot of what goes wrong, if you analyze why businesses go wrong, why relationships go wrong, why science goes wrong, whatever, you'll find that at the root of it is just a lack of caring about the right thing. People care about the wrong things and they don't care about the right things. What are the right things to care about? Well, you know, we've discussed that in many parts of my work, but of course, truth, love, consciousness, development, and more. Epistemic responsibility also means to invest much time in thinking about truth, reality, sensemaking, epistemology. Not just thinking about it, but worrying about it because you feel a sense of duty for getting it right. How many sleepless nights have you spent worrying about whether your understanding of reality is correct or not or whether you're deceiving yourself? See, if you're not if that's not making you lose sleep at night, then you're not doing it right. You're not doing life correctly. You should be worrying about this stuff. It should be a source of anxiety for you. It's amazing how people just stumble through life without even worrying about this stuff. Like they're worrying about the wrong things. It means that you're willing to invest hundreds and thousands of hours improving your epistemic process. See, most people are just concerned about getting the right answer. They're not concerned about the process for how to get the right answer. And they think that if they just get the right answer, that's good enough. But it's not good enough because this is a lifelong process, right? Even if you get the right answer today or tomorrow, it doesn't ultimately matter because we're talking about 80 years of your life. That's a process. That's not a one-time thing. So what you should be concerned about is how do I get my epistemic process correct such that it then automatically effortlessly generates the right answers. Right? So most people just relate to reality as a set of beliefs. I believe something and then it's either true or false. I'm either right or wrong. And they relate to other people that way too. You know, you know, for example, if if someone's listening to me for the first time, you know, some newbie, and then, you know, I say something about God or I say something about reality or spirituality, whatever, I say something and then they just think, "Oh, Leo just believes that. That's just a belief Leo has." No, no, no. It's not a belief that I have, right? You're you're relating to this in such a shallow way, right? You're you're an epistemic noob. You don't even understand yet that I spent decades uh honing my epistemic process such that I have a correct and very deep epistemic process and then this generates all the insight that then I share with you right so most of the work that I did was in into the epistemic process which you don't even see me doing that work that's work I did years ago decades ago that's just paying fruits now and if I didn't do that work then the things that I share with you with you would be very corrupt uh wrong in many cases uh delusional uh deceptive misleading and um and just not at the level of quality that it is right so you should be concerned about what is the correct epistemic process and then you and then see that puts a burden on you because you're going to say well Leo tell me tell me what the correct epistemic process is see but I can't tell you because that means you have to believe me and believing me is not good enough to have a correct epistemic process You have to actually do the work to figure out what the correct epistemic process is rather than just trusting me because that's not correct. Trusting and no trusting of a human is correct epistemic process. You see, believing stuff is not a correct epistemic process. It doesn't matter what the belief is. So, you need to go through years of creating uh the right process for yourself. And you're going to be like, "Well, Leo, I'm lost. I don't even know where to start." Good. That's exactly where you start is by being in a state of confusion and not knowing. That's that's right. But then you have to go through years of that. And that's what people don't want to go through. They just want answers. New people who watch my work, they mistake it as me giving you answers. I'm not giving you answers. I'm helping you to go through an epistemic process. Now, of course, along the way, I give a lot of answers, but if you just take the answers as answers and then you say, "Okay, I'm just going to believe that." Then you've missed the whole point of this work. Epistemic responsibility means deeply caring about truth. You are ready to sacrifice for truth. Now, here again, it gets very sneaky because everybody believes they care about truth. There's no human alive who you ask them, "Do you care about the truth?" And they say, "No, I don't." that that's not a thing. Everybody thinks they care about truth. Everybody already believes they have the truth. And so that makes teaching this point very difficult because when I say deeply caring about truth, you say, "Leo, I already do." And then you're missing actually what I'm trying to teach you because I'm trying to teach you that you don't, right? You have to you have to realize that you don't care about truth. For example, if you're a scientist or an academic, the most important thing I can teach you is that you don't care about truth. But if you're a scientist and academic, you're like, "Well, what do you mean, Leo? What are you talking about? Of course, I care about truth. That's why I went into science. That's why I'm so meticulous about my science." No, you don't understand what it means to care about truth yet. That's a lesson you still have yet to learn. What it means to deeply care about truth is that you are willing to sacrifice for truth. Because see, anybody can say they care about truth. That's easy. What's hard is to actually make the sacrifices necessary for truth. For example, one of the sacrifices you have to make is you have to take time away from practical stuff from survival and put it into doing epistemic contemplation and building your epistemic process. That takes time and most people don't want to make that investment. >> [snorts] >> Epistemic responsibility also means to have a pure intention for better sensemaking, knowing truth, knowing reality. You really want it for its own sake. You really want to know. You want to know what reality is. Do you do you really want to know? See, if you just really wanted to know and that was like a pure genuine intention for you, this this is a this is a very different attitude than 99% of mankind. This attitude is not present in most of mankind. And this is and that attitude makes all the difference. That attitude would automatically correct so many mistakes in this process. All right. You need to get the attitude right. Epistemic responsibility means you go out of your way to truly understand things, people, and situations. You are committed to genuine understanding, not just utility. [snorts] For example, what's an example of how this manifests practically? Like look, if you're listening to two people debating, let's say politics, whatever, uh you're listening to these two people and usually you're going to agree with one person over the other person because they just align with what you already believe. Let's say you're you're a liberal and you're listening to a liberal and a conservative arguing, you're going to agree with the liberal, right? That that's that's the default obvious thing. What's not obvious and this is where epistemic responsibility comes into play and genuine you know intention for understanding is like if you truly want to understand reality then you don't want to just agree with the liberal you want to try to understand why the liberal and the conservative are disagreeing and you want to go deeper and you want to understand the conservative's point of view you you really want to understand it this is not present in most political discussions or debates most political ical discussions and debates are just about proving the other side wrong or even worse demonizing the other side and um blaming them and uh trying to tell them how stupid they are. It's like why can't the conservative just understand that he's stupid? See, this is what most political discussions are like. Um this is completely epistemically irresponsible. If you truly had epistemic responsibility, then you would go into every debate, every discussion trying to understand every point of view in that discussion genuinely. That means there would no there would not be any blaming. There would not be any demonizing. There would not be any judging or criticizing. You would generally want to understand the other person's point of view. Just notice how rare that is. That's extremely rare. And but notice why it's so rare. It's because most people simply don't care to understand. Right? I published a few videos about a year ago about understanding the conservative mind and understanding the liberal mind. A lot of people liked the depth of those analyses. Why were those analyses so deep? Because I truly want to understand conservatives, right? I'm not conservative myself. But that's irrelevant because what's more important to me than defeating conservatives is understanding them because my commitment is to understanding, not to having my way, not to winning politically. This is a key mistake that progressives and liberals make. But of course, conservatives also make this mistake. All partisans make this mistake is they think that the number one issue is to defeat the other side. That's not the number one issue. That's irrelevant in the grand scheme of things. In the grand scheme of things, the number one issue is understanding everything. Because you see, when you're trying to defeat something, that already assumes that you understand it. Why? Because you're already assuming that it's bad. That's why you're trying to defeat it. But the mind isn't conscious that that's an assumption, right? A progressive assumes that conservatives are bad. The progressive didn't take the time to actually understand the conservative to know whether it's bad or not. Just assumed it. That's the error. That's the myopia of it. For example, a scientist assumes that mysticism is bad or wrong. But that precludes the scientist from going and actually studying mysticism seriously to understand whether it's actually wrong or right or good or bad. An atheist assumes that God is wrong, God is delusion, and then they just and then and then they they see they enter into a fighting stance with that worldview. They don't actually take the time to investigate that worldview honestly seriously because they never care to really understand reality. If you really cared about understanding reality, you wouldn't be going around judging and demonizing and fighting with different worldviews. You would be going around trying to understand other worldviews and perspectives because you would have the the humility to understand that you don't have all the answers yet. Epistemic responsibility means that you take on the burden of dealing with relativity of perspective. So this is fundamental. What everybody is missing is relativity. In all of these debates and discussions, whether it's politics or science versus religion or anything like this, the relativity is always being missed, right? Because we're so selfish, we're locked into our perspective. And then we automatically assume that our perspective is the best and right perspective. And then we don't see the relativity of other perspectives. We don't see that reality can be seen from different angles. We just assume that the other perspectives are wrong. For more on that, go see my episode called Understanding Relativism, part one. Epistemic responsibility means being careful to be fair to other perspectives to truly understand them. This fairness point is crucial, right? So most people just simply fail at this basic point of being fair to other perspectives. For example, science is not fair to mysticism. It's just not. When a scientist looks at a mystical perspective, he's not able to step outside of science far enough to be able to evaluate the mystical perspective. Seriously, the problem isn't that. See, it's even deeper than that because you can't be in an evaluative mode before you've even understood the perspective. Right? So, the proper way to go is like you're a scientist, you have to completely step outside of science, completely step outside of academia, investigate mysticism just to understand what it is first. Then you can evaluate. But that's not what happens. What happens is that people are stuck in their paradigm and then they evaluate other paradigms from the paradigm that they're stuck in. and they think that this will work. Of course, this is the wrong epistemic process. This can't work. This is self-deception. This is a process of self-deception. You cannot evaluate any paradigm by being within the paradigm looking at other paradigms. The only way to evaluate a paradigm is to step outside of that paradigm, which is difficult to do. But this is very rarely done. Why? Because people are so irres epistemically irresponsible that they don't even care about all this talk about paradigms. Like Leo paradigms, who cares? [snorts] Epistemic responsibility means that you don't allow yourself to straw man, demonize, and misconstrue other perspectives. This is the key trap. It means you proactively seek out new perspectives. See, it's not enough just to not demonize perspectives. You also have to go out of your way to find new perspectives. Otherwise, you're going to be stuck in an echo chamber of stuff you already know. If you're a liberal, you have to leave the liberal echo chamber and you have to go seriously study conservatives, interact with them, figure out how they think before you judge them, and vice versa, of course. If you're a scientist or academic or rationalist, you have to look at perspectives that are not the rationalist perspective. You have to go outside of science to truly understand reality. You can't just assume that staying in science and academia is going to be enough. You don't know that. That's the bottom line. You don't know that. You just assume it. [snorts] Epistemic responsibility means that you care more about truth than material success, effectiveness, and power. It means you're willing to sacrifice material gains for better epistemology. So, this is where the rubber meets the road. This is the real test of whether you care about truth. Are you willing to sacrifice money, sex, fame, success, power, luxury, fun, comfort, convenience, friends and family, community, approval, status, and career. If you're not willing to sacrifice those things, then you don't actually care about truth. Are you willing to sacrifice survival for understanding? That's the real issue. That's the bottom line here. And of course, most people aren't because, well, you know, why do I need understanding as long as I'm surviving, right? Who cares? [snorts] But that's very shortsighted because eventually it catches up with you. Epistemic responsibility means that you're willing to do the hard work for epistemology, right? is epismology is not just believing what you like. It's about the work. There's a contemplative process that you go through. It's also reading books, finding good teachers, paying money to study with those teachers because usually it ain't free. Taking time out of your life. See, most people are so busy just running their family and their career or their business that they don't even have a week that they can take out of their life, for example, to travel to another state to go to a workshop about epistemology or about philosophy or about spirituality. They just don't have the time for it because their schedule is so busy just surviving. And it's difficult for them to justify because see they work so hard at their career and at their family and all that that when they do get a week off, you know, they get a couple of weeks off a year usually for vacation. You're lucky if you even get a couple of weeks. What are you going to spend that couple of weeks on? Well, you're going to be so dead tired and exhausted from all the work you've done with your family and your career that you're just going to want to go on a vacation to the beach and just relax on the beach for a week or two. And I totally get it. That's important. You know, I'm not saying that you need to be a workaholic. But on the other hand, if you're going to take the only two weeks of the year that you have and you're going to spend at the beach, well then you're not gonna see, you can't invest it at improving your epistemic process, you can't do a meditation retreat or you can't do a consciousness workshop or something like that. And that also takes money too because they're usually a couple thousand dollars not going to be free. [snorts] See, so there's work that's involved here. Believing stuff takes no work. That's why everybody just believes stuff because it's that's the the most easy laziest thing you can possibly do. Epistemic responsibility means that you don't just care about having the right belief or answer. You care about the process. It means that you love the truth itself. You revere truth. See, people who care about the truth strictly for its utility, they don't actually love truth itself, and they don't revere truth. They don't actually respect truth. They're just opportunists. They just need the truth to get something they want. Really, what they rever is they revere money, power, sex, that kind of stuff. They don't rever truth itself. [snorts] Epistemic responsibility is not done for material rewards like greater effectiveness in the world. You're doing it because you know it's the right thing to do. It's just the right thing to do to be epistemically responsible. It means you go on a quest to find the best epistemic method. You go on a quest to understand what knowing is and how to get the best knowing. You reduce reliance on beliefs and trusting others because you don't know who to trust. It means you think autonomously intrinsically about reality. You question from first principles. You don't allow yourself to take shortcuts. You are patient. You're willing to invest 10, 20 years getting your epistemology right. It means you become very open-minded. Why open-minded? Because you see the problem with closed-mindedness. you're afraid of being closed-minded because that would mean that you can lose the truth. If the truth is out there and you're too close-minded, you're not going to find the truth. You're going to reject the truth even if you find it. You see, and so if you're epistemically responsible and you really care about genuinely understanding reality, then you can't be closed-minded. See, I spent years of my life worrying that I was too close-minded to other perspectives. I did that. That was that was challenging work because staying open-minded to to radical perspectives is is difficult because the mind's default tendency is to close down. Epistemic responsibility means that you take ownership over your learning process. You don't wait for others to educate you and to tell you what to do. Right? See, even when you're going to a university, you're just trusting them to teach you the right things. It's like let's say you go into philosophy or into engineering. They have a certain curriculum, a certain set of like classes that you're supposed to take in a certain order and you just trust them like okay I'll take philosophy 101 then I'll take philosophy 102 then I'll study some Kant then I'll study some Deart then I'll study this and that I'll just study the stuff that they tell me to study. That's irresponsible to truly master reality. You have to study uh no one's going to tell you what to study. You have to figure that out yourself. What are the right things to study at the right time? You have to learn proactively. Study proactively. Take notes. Research what are the right books? What are the the best books? Search for the best sources. who are the best teachers, then read those books, study with those teachers. How do you figure all that out? Well, you can't trust anyone to tell you what that is. You have to you have to bootstrap that whole process from zero. It's like, see, this is a very interesting question. Just like kind of fundamentally, philosophically speaking, how do I know what the right books to read are? Because there's thousands of books out there, many of them shallow or delusional or wrong. So, how do I know how from scratch? How do I figure that out? Because you would think you'd have to like trust somebody, right? You'd have to listen to somebody. But then how do you know that you could trust that person that you're listening to? That's question begging right there. Well, uh the answer to that to that question is that ultimately you have to turn within. You have to reflect on your own experience. You have to start somewhere. And I have episodes which explain how to bootstrap an inquiry process. go see my episode um how to find out what's truth something like that. That's what it's called. It's it's been some years. I forgot what it's called. How to find out the truth. Um that episode takes you for how to through the process of bootstrapping your inquiry. So you're bootstrapping inquiry and then as you're doing that then you look for sources and books that align with your bootstrapping process and then you read those and then you could be wrong about those books or those sources and then you try the best you can to figure out you know what are the highest quality sources and I have an episode called um how to distinguish highquality from lowquality perspectives. Go check that out. That explains how you can sort the wheat from the chaff, find the higher quality perspectives, and then you want to read the best quality perspectives you can. And then as you're bootstrapping your epismic process, as you're actually having genuine insight into how your own mind works and so forth, um, you're building more and more confidence in certain aspects, not in everything, but in in certain aspects that you've contemplated. You're building more confidence in those, and then you're able to kind of bootstrap. And then based on that, you're developing certain principles and values that are fundamental. And then based on that, you can use those to select higher quality sources and teachers. See, if you actually went through that process and then you just discovered actualize.org or one day by accident, you stumble into one of my videos, you would listen to me for just 10 minutes and you would automatically would say, "Oh my god, this guy has an insane epistemic depth to everything that he's saying." But see, when a when a normal person who's who hasn't done that, who hasn't bootstrapped any kind of epic process, when a normal person just listens to me or even a scientist or something just listen to me, they listen to me and they don't they don't they can't even appreciate the epistemic depth of what I'm talking about. even within 10 minutes they can't they can't see it right they can watch 10 of my videos they still won't see it but someone who's actually gone through the process they can see that like this guy's the real deal because you can't fake the kind of depth that I'm offering uh when I'm speaking you can't fake it uh only someone who's gone through decades of this process can speak this way which is why nobody speaks almost nobody speaks the way that I speak because I've actually gone through the process you can't there's no amount things that I could believe. It's like, oh, you know, people listen to me and they think, oh, this guy believes in God and stuff. It's like, no, there's no way that you could speak the way that I'm speaking by believing in God. That's impossible. It's impossible. Religion can't give you this level of comprehension. No philosophy, no amount of reading philosophy can do can do this for you. Academic philosophers can't speak like me because they haven't actually gone through the process. And it doesn't matter whether they believe in God or don't believe in God. It does none of that matters. It doesn't matter how much science they've studied. None of that matters because studying science is not an epistemic process. So epistemic responsibility means that you're self-directed. You're intrinsically motivated to figure out reality and you're going to figure it out come hell or high water. And it doesn't matter to you that you don't know how. It doesn't matter to you that it's difficult. It doesn't matter to you that you're lost and confused and frustrated. It doesn't matter at all because you'll figure it out by hook or by crook. That's your sense of purpose. No one needs to tell you or to remind you which books to read or who to study. No one needs to tell you to be careful or to be cautious. No one needs to remind you about self-deception. You already because you already take all that stuff so seriously that it's automatic for you, right? Because the attitude is correct. The attitude is what makes everything click into place. And you you don't even need books and you don't even need teachers. You can literally sit in a chair and figure it all out for yourself from scratch because your attitude is correct. That's the power of attitude. And nothing will stop you. Every obstacle, you'll figure out a way. Your mind is creative. You'll figure out an a solution to every obstacle if you really care about getting it right. The problem is just that people don't care. That's the power of caring. Epistemic responsibility means that you're honest with yourself about what you don't know. You don't pretend that you know things that you don't know. You take not knowing seriously. Go see my episode, The Power of Not Knowing for more on that. It means epistemic humility. You recognize the immense trickery of the mind and how little we actually know and how easy self-deception is and you take it seriously. You do everything in your power to reduce self-deception, fantasy, false beliefs, false views of reality and bias. Epistemic responsibility means that you're non-dogmatic, non ideological. Why not? Because dogma precludes truth seeeking and understanding. See, if you truly cared about understanding, you would eliminate every single obstacle to understanding. What is every obstacle to genuine understanding of reality? Contemplate that. Don't just take my word for it. Contemplate it. Uh but here are a few. Ideology. Blaming, criticizing, demonizing, judging, arguing, debating. These are all obstacles. Why don't I debate? Why don't I do debates? Why don't I argue with anybody? Why don't I make a bunch of criticism videos of people who I dislike and disagree with? Because none of that leads to genuine understanding of reality. That's all distraction, waste of time. But people are so irresponsible that they get lost in online debates about stuff. They think that debating science versus religion is going to help them to understand. No, it doesn't help you at all. Doesn't help you at all. Look at all the best online debaters. Look at people like Destiny, many many others out there who who who have made a career out of debating people and they've become very good debaters, master debaters. Uh but do they have epistemic, philosophical, metaphysical depth? Do they have spiritual depth? No, they don't. because you can't get it that way. Epistemic responsibility means that you investigate your own thinking process. You study how emotions affect your reasoning and how reasoning affects your emotions. This is an internal work that you do. You spend a lot of time in introspection. Go see my episode called developing introspection. That's a powerful one. It means you proactively question yourself. You doubt yourself. You apply skepticism to your own worldview. This is the difference between responsible and irresponsible people is that irresponsible people apply skepticism to everyone but themselves. To everything they disagree with, they apply skepticism, but they never apply to their own worldview. Responsible people, they realize that skepticism of others is way too easy. That's like shooting fish in a barrel. That means nothing. That's not going to advance your understanding. Skepticism of yourself, that's the real work. And that involves, of course, emotional labor. See, there's no emotional labor in debating others. The emotional labor is in debating yourself. How about you debunk yourself before you go debunking others? See, completely lost. This is completely lost on on rationalists. It's so obvious. Everything I'm saying here is so obvious, but uh but nobody does it. It means you proactively question and contemplate. You invest time into meta topics like how to improve your epistemic process. You care more about the meta topics than the content itself. For example, rather than doing a religion, rather than believing in one religion, instead you undertake a meta process to go and study all the religions. Do you see how totally different that is? It doesn't even enter religious people's minds that this is the proper way to go about understanding or spirituality because spirituality is ultimately about understanding. There is no spirituality without understanding. How do you know which religion is correct? You can't know that by just doing one religion. You can only know that by studying all the religions. How many people do that? Very few. [snorts] It means you study epistemic theory and you read and you do philosophy. And it's not enough just to read philosophy. You have to actually do it. See, when you go to a university, they teach you how to read philosophy and how to debate philosophy, but that's not the doing of philosophy. You know, it's amazing. Uh I I can remember like it was yesterday. I was sitting distinct. It was like one of those um you know uh we would have official lectures in philosophy and then we would have like a study group every week there would be a sort of a philosophy study group that we would do where you know all the students would come together and then the the teaching assistant the professor wasn't there but the teaching assistant was there and he would kind of guide us into kind of like discussions of the material that we were reading that week and I remember I was sitting there and all the students were around and they were you know debating some points about stuff that we read that week and um And it just occurred to me the the like these like I'm sitting there and like I'm I'm sitting there very serious, right? I'm sitting there like this is like this is this is like the most important thing in my life is to be in this in this classroom because I'm trying to actually figure out what the fuck reality is, right? I'm sitting there trying to actually figure it out. Like I'm taking it dead seriously. But then I see that the these these students who are just kind of like arguing and debating like I see that to them this is like some kind of like it's just like some kind of side activity. like they're not actually understanding how serious this is to them. I I could see that they were not working to develop any kind of epistemic process. They were just like reading the book and then their assignment was to then just remember what was in the book that they read like remember some decart and remember some Kant and then just kind of like compare and contrast them and just to like say the right things you know cuz the teaching assistant would be in front of the class and he would be like you know if if one student says something wrong about Deart or about Kant you know he would correct them politely. Um, and so to the students sitting all around me, it was like it was like a sort of a game of like say the right things to please the teaching assistant and to just kind of like demonstrate that you understood the reading material. But that's not what I was doing there. I didn't care about the reading material. I was there to actually develop a an epistemology, a correct epistemology. I was there to find out what's the right epistemology because I didn't care whether the you know what the cart said or what K said. I cared about what's the correct epistemology. And throughout four years of university and of of philosophy classes, this this issue was never even resolved, right? It was it was not even something that was seriously attempted by those classes. Those classes were not doing that. Those classes were just providing reading material and then testing you on your understanding and comprehension of the reading material. That's it. >> [snorts] >> So when I saw that, I saw that all this is bullshit, right? This is not real philosophy. And so then I did my own philosophy at home on the side. And so essentially my entire philosophy education was was a waste of time and a waste of money. [snorts] But you know I had to go through that to understand that that's wrong to see the problems of it. Epistemic responsibility means developing rationality because you don't start out life with rationality. Rationality needs to be developed. It takes 10 to 20 years of education to develop rationality. That's what university teaches you. So you go through that process. But then you have to go beyond rationality as I've talked about in my deconstructing rationality episodes and you have to start to study the limits of rationality and then you have to go transrational. Epistemic responsibility means testing and falsification. You have to test and falsify your own beliefs and propositions. The default trap is confirmation bias. People are not seriously testing their own positions. Scientists are not seriously testing their own positions. Religious people are not seriously testing their own positions. New age people are not seriously testing their own positions. Buddhists are not seriously testing their own positions. They're doing confirmation bias. It sounds right. They assume it's right and then they believe it's right. And that's that's it. That's their epistomic process. Epistemic responsibility means that you proactively check yourself, fact check yourself, and you look into sources, better and better sources. It means you're mindful of your own biases, projections, constructions, motivated reasoning, and cherrypicking. Your mind is always cherry-picking evidence and data to validate your paradigm. You have to see through that. You have to take measures to avoid that. It means you care about hypocrisy, bullshit, double standards and contradictions, not within others, within yourself, within your own worldview. You're always evaluating your own worldview, searching it for contradictions and incoherence for bias, for double standards. Go watch my episode about bias. Go watch my episode about double standards. I've covered all these topics in the past. It means you invest time looking at your own internal contradictions and you try your best to correct them. It means you become very mindful of selfish ways of thinking, self-biased ways of thinking, self-centered reasoning. Go watch my episode called self-bias. It means that you cannot lie to yourself. You cannot tolerate wishful thinking, magical thinking, self-serving thinking. You're very careful about bullshitting yourself. You don't want to bullshit yourself. You're very careful not to rationalize your selfishness. You're very careful about fantasy. You're very careful about projection. You study all those self-deception mechanisms that I outlined in my three-part series, self-deception, part one, part two, part three. You make a study of epistemic blunders trying to learn lessons and deriving principles. You study history which teaches you epistemic lessons. Study the history of science. Study the history of religion. Study the history of human civilization. What you see is gross epistemic irresponsibility and epistemic blunder after epistemic blunder. If you just study the epic blunders of science seriously, you'll you won't be able to take modern science seriously because there's so many errors and blunders within science historically that that it should give you no confidence whatsoever that today's science is any better. And it isn't. See, scientists don't take their own history seriously. If they did, they wouldn't be nearly as dogmatic about science as they are. they would be much more humble about the uh about what science understands. Epistemic responsibility means that you proactively seek out those with good epistemology and you learn from them. And how do you know who has good epistemology? You can only know by doing that bootstrapping process and developing your own good epistemology. And then like will see like. Like recognizes like game recognized game as they say. It also means that you avoid people in organizations who do not value epistemology and truth seeeking. This way you avoid the worst and most toxic and dangerous kinds of people and social movements. I've given this story in the past but you know again with my experience in academic philosophy when I was a student there and studying that stuff you know I saw that these people were not serious about truth seeeking and at that point I was trying to decide should I become a should I join this organization of academic of academic philosophy should I should I take part should I make this my career and then the answer was obviously no I I shouldn't make it my career because these people aren't serious about truth seeeking And it's that simple, right? Don't join organizations who aren't serious about truth. It's that simple. This, you know, people people complain about about cults and this kind of stuff. It's it's so simple to avoid cults because um nobody a true cult, nobody in a true cult cares about epistemology or truth seeeking. Nobody. And that's extremely obvious to anybody who actually cares about epistemology or trits. It's extremely obvious that um cults are about material things, right? Cults are about uh group affiliation. Cults are about a sense of community. Uh cults are about lovebombing you, feeling good, happiness, this kind of stuff. You know, avoiding suffering. This is what cults are about. Um they're also about power and money and and sex. um all the all this kind of like brain dead obvious material stuff um they're they're they're not about ser serious truth seeeking and that's extremely obvious to understand once you understand what I'm talking about so you will never fall into a cult if you understand what I'm talking about but it's not just cults I mean I'm also talking about science I'm also talking about academia I'm also talking about corporations I'm talking about governments I'm talking about any kind of collective basically No collective cares about truth seeeking. So if if you really care about epistemology and truth seeeking, see if you were truly epistemically responsible, you wouldn't join any organizations. You wouldn't join a a Christian church. Why would you? I mean that that's just joining a Christian church is grossly epistemically irresponsible. Does any Christian understand this? No. Even joining Buddhist retreats is epistemically irresponsible. See, that's the level of standard that I'm trying to set for you here. Joining academia is epistemically irresponsible. Why? Because you're putting yourself into a paid relationship where you have to jump through hoops for money in academ. you know, if you want to have a position at academia, you have to jump through their hoops for money. And the university system doesn't care about truth. That's not its priority. So, so it would be irresponsible to place yourself into that predicament. You should see if you genuinely cared about truth and understanding, you would see that a mile away and you would just steer clear of it. You wouldn't go there. But but many people just go into academia, they just stumble into it because they just assume it's the the the right way to understand reality. And then it it doesn't and then it takes them 10 years to realize that wait a minute, these people don't really care about truth. But then it's too late because now your whole career is wrapped up in it. It's too hard to leave now. How would you pay your rent? Epistemic responsibility means that you don't fall for any belief system. No ideology, no cult, no religion, no collective way of thinking. Every collective way of thinking is ultimately wrong because it's epistemically irresponsible. Collective thinking is epistemic irresponsibility itself. It doesn't matter what the contents of the thinking is. It doesn't matter if it's Buddhist, Hindu, science, atheism, it doesn't matter. non-dual doesn't matter. It's still collective thinking. It means that you're very careful about distractions since distractions take you off course from your mission which is deeper understanding. What are some distractions? Criticism, arguing, blaming, demonizing others. These are distractions. Epistemic responsibility means that you don't want to live in illusion and fantasy. You value knowing reality as it is, regardless of how it is. You don't care how it is. You don't care how it makes you feel. It's irrelevant. It means you don't want fast or easy answers. You don't care how long it takes. You don't care if it takes you 40 years to reach enlightenment. you're going to do it anyways. It doesn't matter. You don't care how hard it's going to be. It doesn't matter. It's irrelevant. It's just irrelevant. Responsibility means going out of your way to hear difficult and painful truths. Responsibility means to take emotional labor, the emotional labor of holding difficult and serious truths. Truth requires emotional labor. And in fact, it's not just that. You value and you cherish heavy truths, ugly, difficult truths. This actually turns you on. This makes you excited to hear an ugly, difficult truth. This is antithetical to how most human minds operate. This means you have to set aside being offended and triggered and disappointed. Responsibility means that you care more about truth than feeling good or positivity. You are willing to endure negativity and negative emotions for the sake of understanding reality. You are willing uh to radically change yourself, to change your worldview, to surrender fantasies and beliefs because you genuinely want better sensemaking. You're willing to let go of your mental attachments. Clinging to mental attachments is epistemically irresponsible, which is what most people do. It means you care about living in alignment with truth. You care about the integrity of your own mind. Very importantly, responsibility here means a willingness to change your lifestyle to align with the truth. If you're not willing to change your lifestyle, then you're not serious here. A lot of people treat truth seeking as a purely intellectual, philosophical activity and then they're not willing though to change their lifestyle. For example, they're not willing to change their career. They're not willing to leave academia. They're not willing to to seriously challenge science. They're not willing to leave their religion. They're not willing to leave their church or their community. They're not willing to leave their family and so forth. Um, so the real test of your commitment here and your responsibility is that when you discover some profound truth about some aspect of your life and that truth requires you to surrender that aspect of your life, then you will surrender it. For example, you spend, you know, you spend years smoking weed with your friends on Friday nights because it's fun, it's entertaining, you have a lot of fun doing this. You do little little, you know, evening parties smoking weed, but then you maybe you listen to enough of my content or, you know, you read other spiritual work or whatever and then and then one day it hits you. Wait a minute. This is counterproductive to my truth seeeking process and to understanding reality. This is this is a distraction. It's it's becoming an addiction. I'm not able to meditate the way I want and so forth. I'm missing meditation days. I'm missing yoga days and so forth for for this weed stuff cuz I'm addicted now. Um, and then you realize that this is see the truth now the integrity of your mind now requires you to drop this fun weed smoking lifestyle. Are you going to do it? See, if your if your true attitude was that I'm after understanding, I'm after the truth, then you would drop it. it would not be difficult for you to drop it. That's what I mean by changing lifestyle. Or if you're working in some organization, you're working in the government, you're working in academia, you're working for some corporation, and then you realize something about that organization. Maybe you're in the military, you're working in the military, and then you realize there's some corruption, some incoherence, you discover, you know, some falsehood, some self-deception. you discover some evil you discover in that organization now you have to quit. Are you going to quit? That's where it gets really difficult. That's the real test of your commitment to this work. And it might even involve your family because your family could be very toxic and very self-deceived, very ideological. Maybe you come from a family that is a cult. Maybe you come from, you know, a family of Scientologists or Mormons or Jehovah's Witnesses, something like that. Or even just plain old Christians, you know, fundamentalist Christians, evangelical family or a deeply Muslim family. And, you know, they're all brainwashed into that ideology. Your commitment to truth will will force you to leave that your family. Now, I'm not saying you have to leave your family. Um um you of course want to consider that very carefully. Uh, but if they're toxic and they're preventing you from truth seeeking, then you're going to have to make ways of leaving and, you know, minimizing contact. That doesn't mean you have to cut all contact, but you want to create some distance there so that they are the key is is that you want to have enough space to do the epistemic process, right? It's okay to be in a Christian family or a Mormon family, whatever, as long as they're not obstructing your epistemic process. But if they're obstructing your epistemic process and the worse they are at doing that, for example, if they're making fun of you for meditating, if they're not allowing you to do psychedelics, they're not allowing you to do yoga, they're not allowing you to do certain things, um, you know, they're not allowing you to read the books you need to read to go to the classes and workshops you got to go to to, you know, to figure out reality, then that becomes a dealbreaker, right? See, the truth is more important than your family. But that's very painful, right? Because who wants to start cutting ties with their family? That's not something you want to do willy-nilly just, you know, mindlessly. That that requires a lot of deep painful consideration and that's going to have a lot of emotional labor for you. Epistemic responsibility means that you value honesty, being truthful with others. You don't want to live a life of bullshitting others or yourself. You tell the truth even when it's difficult and painful. You ask for the truth even when it's difficult and painful. It also means that you don't posture and cloak yourself in truth. You are busy in the process of seeking the truth. Right? You're not bragging about how you have the truth or how what you believe is the truth. That's not helping you to advance your understanding of reality. You're kneede in the process. You're busy reading books. You're busy contemplating. You're busy doing yoga. You're busy talking to teachers. You're busy con, you know, asking questions. And you're journaling. That kind of stuff. That's evidence of your of your work. It means that you're open to feedback about yourself and your work rather than being defensive because you want to maximize perspectival parallax. Perspectal parallax just means the difference between two perspectives. The more parallax you have in perspective like your two eyes, you know, you start to see in three dimensions. You start to see more blind spots. The more perspective parallax that you have, it means that you're willing to admit that you were wrong to change yourself uh to better align with the truth. The more tolerance you have for admitting how wrong you are, the faster you're going to develop your epistemic process. You have to just constantly keep admitting that you're wrong, especially in the beginning because you're so wrong. Just keep admitting that you're wrong over and over and over again. Like for example, if you come from a Mormon family or a Christian family or a Muslim family, you're going to have a lot of admitting that you're wrong to do before you, you know, you correct your worldview sufficiently that it gets a little easier. And that's going to be very painful. Epistemic responsibility means that you stop arguing and you listen deeper. Arguing is epistemically irresponsible. It means you stop toxic and timewasting behavior like trolling, debating, demonizing, crusading, defending, justifying, rationalizing, attacking manipulating. You also stop telling others what to believe and you stop pushing your beliefs on them. Telling other people what to believe is epistemically irresponsible. If you were responsible, you wouldn't do it. [snorts] It means that you are careful not to pollute people's minds with a misinformation and illusion. Just going on a rant against someone you disagree with, that's irresponsible behavior. It means being responsible means that you care about the information epistemic ecosystem. You don't want to pollute the epistemic ecosystem. You don't want to put, you know, you don't want to release a YouTube video with a bunch of bullshit in it. You don't want to write an article with a bunch of bullshit in it. You don't want to convince someone to believe something. Responsibility means that you care about wholeism, not just partial understanding. You don't limit your scope of understanding to just one field like, oh, I only care about physics because I'm a physicist and that's it. I only care about mathematics because that's just what I am. I'm a mathematician and that's what I get paid for and that's it. This is irresponsible. You take responsibility for understanding the totality of reality, not just parts of it that interest you. Everything. You want to understand everything holistically. Epistemic responsibility means that you are in charge of your epistemic process. You are the CEO of your epistemic process and you don't try to outsource your your process to anybody else. You don't ask anybody to tell you what's right. You figure that out yourself. That's a burden. See, that's a responsibility to figure out yourself because it'll take you longer to figure it out for yourself than to just ask somebody to tell you the answer. Epistemic responsibility means that you set a high standard for yourself and you enforce it on yourself. You worry about self-deception all the time. You understand the immense importance of understanding and what it does in your life. It means you care about metaphysics. You don't treat metaphysics as just some sort of mental masturbation activity. You take it seriously. It has consequences. It matters. So there you go. That's what epistemic responsibility means in a nutshell. Epistemic responsibility is actualized secret sauce. You might say, "What is my secret sauce if I have one? My secret sauce is that from a very young age I took extreme epistemic responsibility to an unusual degree and this profoundly shaped my life in positive ways. I did this intuitively no one else around me was doing this and I didn't even I was so deep in the process. I took it so seriously that it didn't even occur to me that there was any other way to live. I didn't even know that other people weren't living this way. It took me years later to realize that I invested so much emotional labor into worrying about epistemology that I didn't even realize nobody else did. And it's it's like I was living um with this strict set of self-imposed constraints that nobody else puts upon themselves. And I thought this was just how everyone lived. And it's funny because I didn't even really feel the burden very much because I always had the I was always carrying the burden because in my mind there's not even there's not even an alternative way to live. I couldn't even imagine a different way to live than this. And so from from an early age that built a very deep foundation in me and now that I'm trying to teach that to you because it's so rare. Again, I'm always amazed at how rare it is because I didn't think that I was like special in this regard. Epistemic responsibility is simply the right way to live. There is no other better way to live. Epistemic responsibility is a heavy burden, but it's also one of those healthy burdens. It's like lifting weights. Over the years, it makes your mind stronger and healthier while everybody else's mind around you decays into corruption from selfdeception and bias. Epistemic responsibility is an honest signal. It can't be faked. It's obvious who has it and who's done it and who doesn't have it and who hasn't done who hasn't done it. For example, it's obvious if you're talking to any religious person, it's obvious that every religious person is epistemically irresponsible. And then if you go even deeper, you'll realize that every scientist is epistemically irresponsible, too. If you talk to them, you'll realize it. Of course, there's degrees of epistemic responsibility and irresponsibility. So, science is more epistemically responsible than most religion, but it's not responsible enough to get you to where you ultimately want to go. Contemplate what is the value of epistemic responsibility? This is one of those subtle things. It's not immediately obvious. It's not immediately material. So contemplate that. And it takes years and decades to start to see the fruits of laying that foundation for the value to materialize. and study examples of people who sherk epistemic responsibility and just observe what happens to them, to their lives, to their minds, to their behavior. Here's a list of some examples of epistemically irresponsible people and movements or organizations. Of course, the classic example is Fox News. I've mentioned that in other episodes. Fox News is just a, you know, sort of the reason I bring up Fox News so much is uh simply because it's just such a such a stark cartoonish example of epistemic irresponsibility. The entire organization of Fox News, you know, it it purports to be a news organization, but it's really not. It's a propaganda organization. And that that's not just my opinion. It was literally founded that way. The original kernel, the conception for Fox News was conservatives were losing America, you know, American elections in like the 1970s and 80s or whatever. And then um and then they, you know, conservative political types and partisans, they started thinking like, how can we start to win more elections? How can we ensure that we're always winning conservative elections in American politics? And their their answer was Fox News. Let's create Fox News. Right. Fox News is not interested in the truth and it's not interested in understanding reality or even understanding politics or even understanding America. [laughter] It's it's interested in in in just propaganda and winning conservative elections and everything else is just window dressing to mask that. Other examples of epistemic epistemic irresponsibility, Nazis, Zionists, Christians, Muslims, Mormons, Scientologists, newagers, and many spiritual people, cults, of course, political commentators like uh Tim P, Steven Crowder, a lot of the conservative political commentator, Ben Shapiro, this kind of stuff. Um what if all history this guy extremely epistemically irresponsible and of course there's plenty of irresponsibility on the it's not limited to conservatives it's also applies to progressives as well political activists antivaxers conspiracy theorists Alex Jones Q anon debunkers critics and trolls tabloids 4chan incelss the pickup community. See, the pickup community is so focused on maximizing sex that they that they forget all about truth. Business people, CEOs, Elon Musk is a good example. Addicts and the mentally ill. Mental illness just makes it difficult to be epistemically responsible. And so that's why mentally ill people often, not always, but often they will develop very twisted, dysfunctional, toxic worldviews. And they're so attached to them that they can't let them go because they're, you know, a mentally ill mind is just, you know, attached. They can't surrender. and uh and even scientists are an example of epistemic irresponsibility. So now let's talk about science a little bit. How is science epistemically irresponsible? So here's a list. Science is a very tricky example, perhaps the most trickiest example because of course every scientist postures and believes himself to be epistemically responsible. But this is a facade. This is fake. Here's why. First of all, because science is grossly unholistic. It's compartmentalized. It's siloed. It's reductionistic. No scientist takes responsibility for a total understanding of reality. And even those who purportedly work on, you know, theories of everything and all that kind of stuff, everybody every scientist who's working on a theory of everything, this is this is not this this is this is not proper total holism. Um, science is way too technical, way too specialized to be epistemically responsible because everybody's just working in their little silo and they're just responsible for getting this particular science right, you know, physics right, quantum physics right, string theory right, or whatever, you know, whatever they're focused on. But they're not looking at the big picture because no one is paying them to look at the big picture. There's no position within science. There's no position within academia that allows you to look at the big picture. You don't get paid for that. You don't get grants for that. You don't get research funding for that. There's no university spots for that. If you do that, they're going to even make fun of you for not being a true scientist because a true scientist has to be professional and has to focus on just this one little department. Otherwise, you know, you're too arrogant. Otherwise, you know, you're biting off more than you can chew because, you know, nobody can understand everything. Yeah, that's what they tell themselves. Uh, another reason is because science is conformist. Extremely conformist. Science is belief based. Way too many beliefs within science. Science assumes way too much. Doesn't question assumptions nearly enough. Science is biased. Extremely biased. Science dismisses philosophy and metaphysics. treats these as unimportant and uh not fundamental to to science. I'm I'm really skipping and kind of glossing over these points are very deep points. I'm kind of just running over them very quickly. If you want more on the limits of science, go see my series deconstructing the myth of science part one, part two, part three where we discuss all of these in much more great detail. I'm just summarizing the here for you. Uh other reasons why science is is irresponsible is it ignores metaphysical questions. Always kicking the can down the road of metaphysics. You know what is anything? Well, just keep keep kicking the can down the road forever until you die. It's too disinterested in philosophy trying to separate science and philosophy. Science places results over truth. It's too pragmatic. Science is too constructive. It's not willing to deconstruct itself. Science is too close-minded. It ridicules spiritual and mystical phenomena without understanding it first. Science doesn't take relativity seriously. Science doesn't see itself as relativistic. Science is only doing symbolic consciousness. There's no serious meditation. There's no serious yoga. There's no serious mystical experiences. There's no serious use of psychedelics. See, um, scientists have this backwards. Scientists have convinced themselves that not using psychedelics is responsible. No, no, no, no. You got it all backwards. Not using psychedelics is insanely epistemically irresponsible. If you're a scientist or a philosopher and you don't use massive amounts of psychedelics, you're insanely irresponsible. You're professionally negligent. You shouldn't even be allowed to be employed. That's how negligent you are. But see, why is this not understood? Because of conformity. Because of group think. Because you're just conforming to the to the the prevailing culture in academia, which tells you the opposite. You know, academia and science demonizes psychedelics. And for good reason, because it would destroy it would destroy science. >> [snorts] >> Science is unwilling to do the inner work. Science is unwilling to question its own foundations. It's lost in technical minutia. It's stuck serving a bureaucratic system. Science becomes careerism. Scientism, rationalism, materialism, atheism, skepticism, and debunking all of this is epistemic irresponsibility. Science is a mirage of epistemic responsibility and rigor. It's fake rigor. It's not truly rigorous, which is why it acts like it's rigorous so much, right? And scientists don't understand this. Rationalists don't understand this. >> [snorts] >> So epistemic responsibility is really just caring about truth. That's really all it is. If all you did was care about truth, you would automatically be epistemically responsible if you just made truth your highest priority. If you just lived for truth. If you built your whole life around truth. Contemplate this question. How would I live? How would my life be different if I deeply cared about truth? Ultimately, why are you taking epistemic responsibility? Because you actually want to understand how reality is. That's it. That's the bottom line. How is epistemic responsibility taken? By self-reflecting uh by realizing its importance first and foremost. You just want to see how important this is. Also by wanting to know whatever is true. By wanting to actually understand reality genuinely. Also by lots of contemplation and thought experiments. Doing philosophical inquiry. Questioning. Asking highquality questions. Asking deep existential questions and taking those questions seriously. Not just as a intellectual game. By studying your own psychology, studying the deceptive ways of your own mind from the inside out. By studying history, the history of human knowledge and all of its blunders, learning lessons from history. by researching high-quality books to read and then reading those books and contemplating the material contained in those books. Taking notes, keeping a commonplace book. Investing your free time thinking about epistemic issues and worrying about them. Exploring diverse and radical perspectives. Going out of your way to find perspectives that challenge you that are outside of your existing paradigm. Being radically open-minded. seeking out teachers and sources and friends who also take epistemic responsibility and who value truth seeeking. Stop hanging around with people who don't care about the truth. Observing your own mind for self-deception, hypocrisy, contradictions, fantasy, biases, and irrationality. Applying true skepticism, doubting your own self, questioning your own self and your own views. questioning culture, society, and collective views and beliefs. This is how you practice epistemic responsibility. Contemplate the following questions. What are all the obstacles to epistemic responsibility? And what are all the obstacles to good sensemaking? See, if you look at animals, animals are survival machines. They don't have enough consciousness to care about the truth. Animals take no responsibility. Animals only do the bare minimum to survive. And most humans are animals and live in the same way. If you want to develop, if you want to become more than an animal, this requires development work. The most important thing for becoming more than an animal is caring about truth. And being epistemically responsible, the thing that animals cannot do. And then the more you do that, the more spiritual you'll become until eventually you'll transcend being human and you'll become God. Epistemic responsibility is a principled way of life. It's a set of principles that you impose on yourself because you recognize their profound importance. Think of an ancient Greek philosopher like Socrates or Pythagoras or the Stoics. Think of how they lived that principled way of living. Epictitus, another example of that. Stoic philosopher um that they are they are examples of embodied epistemic responsibility. The philosopher or the sage takes peak epist ep epistemic responsibility. Epistemic responsibility is the only solution to selfdeception and ignorance. When you take epistemic responsibility, you become epistemically self-directed. the chief epistemic officer of your life. This is the generator function of truth and understanding. Spend time noticing how epistemically irresponsible most people are. Just observe. Observe. The more you observe it, the more you will start to see the fruits of that irresponsibility and the more you will realize that you don't want that those fruits in your own life. You don't want the consequences of being irresponsible. That's a terrible way to live. You want to be able to quickly and easily identify who is and who isn't epistemic epistemically responsible. This will serve you well and help you to avoid many problematic people. Epistemically irresponsible people are not pleasant or good people to be around. These people will lie. They will cheat. They're not dependable. They'll stab you in the back. They'll demonize you. They'll fight with you. They'll hurt you. They'll badmouth you. Epistemic responsibility is necessary for any serious intellectual work. If you want to be an intellectual in the sense that you want to be a writer, an author, a teacher, a speaker, anything like that, you need to take epistemic responsibility extra seriously. If you want to be a scientist, a philosopher, a journalist, if you want to do political analysis, if you want to be a historian, if you want to do spiritual teaching, if you want to be a therapist, if you want to do any kind of punditry, all of this kind of intellectual work without epistemic responsibility just becomes junk and poison. It's worse than junk. poisons people's minds, especially if you're in any kind of leadership position or teaching position where you're influencing thousands or millions of people. If you're a YouTube influencer, if you're any kind of public educator, if you're a sort of a, you know, like a Neil deGrasse Tyson type of person or like a Sam Harris type of person, one of these kind of like public intellectuals or one of these public scientist types, this is extra important for you because you're deceiving people. Epistemic responsibility is ultimately about respect for reality, for truth, for the quality of your own mind. This is not a chore or a burden. You just value intelligence and you value understanding. To love reality is to want to understand it as it is accurately, not distorted by self-serving serving fantasy or by human centric egocentric uh you know filters really what I'm talking about here is the foundation of love of reality itself see you could get everything I'm talking about here intuitively automatically effortlessly if all you did was you just loved reality itself see if you loved reality you would automat autoatically be in the correct relationship to it. You would automatically treat truth with reverence. You would automatically want to understand it deeper because if you love a thing, you want to know it deeper and better. And you would want to know it as it is, not as a fantasy. You would want to know it without bias, not according to some kind of bias. You would want to know it for its own sake, not because you want money or fame or love or sex or anything like that. So really what I'm teaching you is just how to love reality. That's all I'm teaching you ever is how to love reality and then the rest is just minutia technical details. So the question for you is do you actually love reality? And be careful. Don't just answer instinctively. Really pause and think about it. Do you actually love reality? And if you've lived a difficult life, if you've been abused, if you have some trauma and so forth, um it's not easy to say yes to that. And be careful before you say yes, I want you to to contemplate the consequences of saying yes. Because as soon as you say, I love reality, that has serious consequences. And then you have to don't just say it. You have to actually then live it. So if you say yes, then I want you to immediately start to think what does that mean for how I'm going to live and what kind of changes do I have to make to live according to that yes. If you love reality, you want to know how it is regardless of how it is. It shouldn't matter to you how it is. You just want to know. And you're going to love however it is. If the earth turns out to be flat, you're going to love the flat earth. It's like a parent loving a child. You know, it doesn't matter who your child becomes, how he comes out, what sex he has, or what what gender he has, or who he has sex with. It doesn't matter. What's going to happen to you if you're not epistemically responsible? Here's a list of things. You will fall into ideology, beliefs, and conformity. You will get lost in intellectual fads of the time and era in which you live. You will become paradigm locked. You will become ideological and dogmatic and close-minded. Your mind will slowly become corrupt and poisoned. Your view of your re reality will become more and more biased. You will become more and more self-deceived. You will misunderstand reality and others. You will be fundamentally insecure and defensive because you're going to be defending your false views. You will become judgmental, hateful, angry, bitter, and hurtful. You will become violent. You will become profoundly distracted and lost. You will never realize God and love. And you will pollute the information ecosystem. You will promote false views and ideologies. You will indoctrinate children. And you will start religions and cults and other kinds of intellectual movements which poison people's minds. You will become evil without knowing it. Ultimately, decades of epistemic responsibility ends in consciousness of profound truths that most humans never get access to. And it leads to breaking free of cultural conditioning, all ideology, even science, rationalism, materialism, atheism. And it leads to consciousness of God in the absolute. Notice how much easier it is to go through life bullshitting yourself and everybody else. Bullshitting requires no responsibility, no discipline. Just say whatever works in the moment. Say whatever comes to your mind. Say whatever feels natural. Say whatever feels good. I'm trying to teach you how to set a high standard for yourself and for others. Uh a standard of intellectual quality, truthfulness, objectivity, neutrality. and also hololism, totality, depth, comprehension, consciousness, groundedness. There's a connection here between epistemic responsibility and not knowing. Epistemic responsibility is about developing profound not knowing. Go watch that episode, The Power of Not Knowing. It's called An example of epic epistemic irresponsibility is going beyond not knowing into speculation or into pragmatics or utility, for example. Well, I'm just going to sit and speculate about what might be true and then I'm just going to go with that. That's irresponsible. Or I'm just going to go with whatever works. Whatever works is the truth. That's irresponsible. It is your responsibility to ensure the consistency and coherence of your own mind and worldview. It takes epistemic responsibility not to cherrypick data, statistics and facts, not to selectively frame situations, which is what the default tendency of the mind is, is to cherrypick and frame situations in selfish ways, self-serving ways. Epistemic responsibility means don't tell me what I want to hear. Tell me the truth. It's going out of your way to hear difficult truths, to understand difficult truths that don't feel good. It's actually an attitude of preference for challenging truths than pleasant childish fantasies. That's really the key there. Just try to imagine that attitude that you get more satisfaction from a brutally challenging ugly truth than you do from a pleasant childish fantasy. That's the hallmark of maturity right there. Here are a few examples of epistemic responsibility. For example, you take the time to research things you don't fully understand. Another one is that you learn meditation, yoga, you attend meditation retreats. Another example, you don't allow career and academic position to take priority over truth seeeking. Another example, you go out of your way to find exceptional teachers and sages to learn from. Another example, you take psychedelics to challenge your understanding of reality. Another example, you go out of your way to try to understand other people's points of view. You actually, rather than arguing with them, you actually want to know more of how they see reality. Even if you disagree, even if they're deluded, you want to understand what's going on there. Why do they have this view? If you were living properly, I shouldn't need to be pulling and pulling you kicking and screaming towards the truth, towards doing this work. You should be pulling yourself just because you understand the profound importance of truth. Ultimate epistemic responsibility is awakening and surrendering the ego. Surrendering ego is just the right thing to do. I shouldn't need to tell you why it's the right thing to do. You should already know that it's the right thing to do. Even if you haven't done it yet, even if you struggle with it, see, it's okay if uh you struggle with with this work and you're not sure exactly what to do. But what you need to to have in place is you need to you you need to know what the right thing is first, right? Like it's okay if you're not awake and it's okay if you struggle to meditate and it's okay whatever uh you know whatever wrong beliefs you have all that is okay as long as you understand that awakening is the right thing to do becoming selfless is the right thing to do personal development is the right thing to do questioning science is the right thing to do questioning religion is the right thing to do these are obvious things right this shouldn't be controversial that these are the right things to These are obviously the right things to do. Trying to understand contrary perspectives is the right thing to do rather than arguing with them. Listening better and deeper is the right thing to do. Opening your mind is the right thing to do. Letting go of beliefs is the right thing to do. Practicing not knowing is the right thing to do. Reading more, studying deeper is the right thing to do. Questioning reality is the right thing to do. Questioning yourself is the right thing to do. Doubting yourself is the right thing to do. You should deeply feel in your heart and soul that these are the right things to do. And I shouldn't need to make arguments for it. I shouldn't I can of course I can logically explain why these are all the right things to do, but it shouldn't matter. You should already feel as soon as I say it, you should already feel in your soul that it's the right thing to do. Responsibility means taking the time to lay the proper foundation for the rest of your life. Laying the deepest foundation that you can is the right thing to do. Living life properly correctly is the right thing to do. Finding the right principles by which to live is the right thing to do. Contemplate this. How do I lay the deepest foundation for the good life? Responsibility is the cornerstone of that. Responsibility is the right thing to do. Not because it's going to get you laid and not because it's going to make you secure or it's going to make you money or it's going to make you happy. It's just the right thing to do. You have to you have to start to realize that you just have to live according to the right principles regardless of what it means or where it's going to take you. It's just the right thing to do. Just do the right thing. That's it. This is otherwise called the principle of right action. Living in alignment with truth is just the right thing to do. That's why we do it. Not because it gets us anything. It's just the right thing to do. Evil is irresponsibility. Look at evil people. Look at them. They are all profoundly irresponsible in whatever way. There are many, many ways that you can be irresponsible leading to all sorts of evils, an infinite diversity of evils. Irresponsibility is speaking without thinking. Irresponsibility is thinking without meditating. Irresponsibility is doing science without meditating. Doing science without philosophy. Doing science without psychedelics. That's irresponsibility. Look, psychedelics are dangerous and psychedelics are very serious and I don't recommend them casually to anybody. So, don't mis misunderstand me here. Um, go watch my episode about the dangers of psychedelics and how to use them responsibly and properly. I've discussed all that in the past. Um, but it would be irresponsible for me not to tell you here that unless you've done a hundred or more psychedelic trips, you are epistemically irresponsible. I need to say this here because I see so many people bullshitting themselves. You know, they do one or two trips and they think that, oh, okay, I got it, Leo. I got it. I got the message. I'm hanging down the phone. You ain't got shit. You ain't got shit. at least a 100 trips to start to become epistemically responsible and preferably on a on a variety of chemicals because one chemical is is just too narrow. It's going to give you too narrow of a view. You need that perspectival parallax. Each chemical gives you more parallax. Again, I'm not telling you to take psychedelics. I'm just explaining to you how the mind works, how the epistemics work, and then what you do. That's your responsibility. I am not responsible for what you do with your life. That's completely on you. My responsibility is to deliver the truest, deepest, purest, least biased explanations of how the mind works. And then what you do with that is completely up to you. And if you're not careful and you're not responsible, you will fuck up your life with this information. And I will not be responsible for that because I've already been very responsible giving you all of these disclaimers. I go out of my way. I'm tired of giving these disclaimers. But responsibility necessitates that I give these disclaimers over and over again because people will misunderstand. you know, they'll they'll watch one video, but they won't watch 10 videos. They won't watch a 100 videos, and so they'll get they'll get the wrong ideas, and then they'll hurt themselves, right? I don't want you to hurt yourself, but at the same time, I'm not going to dumb down reality and truth for you either, right? If psychedelics are this important, I have to say that this important. That's the truth. Right? It doesn't matter what you think. And it doesn't matter if it's dangerous. It's the truth. That's why I say it. And the last warning I want to give to you here is that epistemic responsibility is good. It's great. But it will not make you immune to self-deception. Self-deception transcends all of your efforts at epistemic responsibility. Even if you do your damnedest and your best to be epistemically responsible and you follow all of the principles and you do all of the right things and you're extremely careful and paranoid and and anal about all of this stuff, you will still fall into self-deception. That's how deep self-deception is. But without but without doing all this stuff, you have no chance at all. You at least have a chance if you follow these principles. Ultim ultimately what I'm proposing to you here is that you make understanding your religion true religion is just pure understanding the pursuit of pure understanding. That's why beliefs and ideology are antithetical to true religion. That's a corruption of religion. Religion is that true religion is that which leads you to God. That which leads you to God is true understanding. That's what your focus must be. It's not to reading the Bible or to memorizing some something sage said or to doing some set of practices or to praying in some particular way or even meditating or any of that stuff. None of that is relevant. None of that is is none of that is core, right? The core is how deeply do you understand reality? And since you are reality, the question is how deeply do you understand yourself? And so this entire process that we're doing here is we're just helping you to understand yourself at deeper and deeper levels. That's all that we're doing here. And that turns out to be true religion. Just what do you think actualize.org is? What do you think I'm creating here? I created true religion. Why would I create anything else? This is what true religion looks like. It looks very different than normal religion. That's why I don't call what I teach religion because religion has been so corrupted over the last couple thousand years. It's turned into such shit that it's insulting to even call what I'm teaching you religion. But truly, properly, if you realize that religion is just about becoming more conscious of God, then what I'm teaching you is the highest form of religion. non-dogmatic, non ideological, completely open-minded, focused on epistemics, focused on truth seeeking, focused on self-trcendence, focused on transcending bias and selfishness, focused on understanding all points of view, focused on understanding yourself. This is true religion. That's what I teach. That's what actualize is. All right, that's it. I'm done for this one. Um, a few resources you might want to check out if you found this useful. Check out my book list. Check out my life purpose course. Check out my blog. I'm always posting crazy deep insights resources on my blog. I'm updating the blog on a daily basis. Uh, so go check that out. Check out my uh podcast interview with Demystify Sai links down below where you can find that and uh and more stuff in the future to come. Uh I will end on this final point for you. You need to test everything that I tell you. You can't just assume that it's true because I say it. Everything I tell you, you can test. This is the work. The work is in the testing. That's the right epistmic process is to test stuff. When you hear someone say something, you got to go test it and test it and test it and test it again. And um and and testing is not as easy as it sounds because it can take you years to test some of the things that I say. And you can also do a a poor test. You can do a shitty test. You know, if you're just going to be lazy about testing stuff, you might test something that I say and you say, "Oh, Leo, I didn't get the results, so what you're saying is false." No, it just means you got to spend years testing it. You got to test like deep deep testing. Some things you can test in minutes or in hours or in days and some te some things that I say will take will take you 10 years to test. That's what distinguishes true religion from fake religions. In fake religion, the corrupt religions, they don't put the burden on you to test anything. And in fact, they try to stop you from testing stuff. With true religion, all you're doing is testing stuff. Because when you're actually genuinely pursuing the truth, you don't mind testing. Testing doesn't threaten you. Testing only threatens people who are attached to falsehoods and fantasies. So all of actualize.org I I'm happy for you to test all of it. And sometimes I'll say something wrong and say something false and then the test that you're going to do that I expect you to do because if you're responsible you're testing the things that I'm saying. If you're irresponsible, you're just believing things that I'm saying. And then you know cuz I'm not perfect. I have some corruption. Sometimes I'll say something wrong. Sometimes my understanding is not complete. Sometimes I have personal biases. Sometimes my ego acts up and I say something egotistical or whatever. And I expect you to be responsible enough to be testing all this stuff that will then help to make my work better than it actually is. See, cuz I can't promise you uh perfect work. It's very difficult to do this work as it is. I spend a lot of time agonizing over saying the wrong thing here or there, misleading you, right? But even even so, I can't avoid because like I said, I'm not immune to self-deception either. I still have certain self-deceptions within me and I I've always had them and I'm you know correcting them over time. Um but no no nobody can no teacher can promise you um a perfect set of teachings and that's because no teacher can guarantee that they have transcended self-deception. So test test test every insight that I give you and only if it passes the test and it aligns with your experience then you should regard it as true. Otherwise I I don't I don't need you to hold things as true just because I say them. That would be false religion and that's not what I'm here for.
