---
title: "Transcript: How To Stop Backsliding - How To Stop Procrastinating"
search:
  exclude: true
---

# Transcript: How To Stop Backsliding - How To Stop Procrastinating

**YouTube:** [Watch on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rBq-EPieRwU)

---

Hey, this is Leo for actualized.org. And in this episode, I'm going to be talking about the concept called homeostasis, which is the reason why you keep backsliding in your life. [Music] There's a thorny little problem that sticks in our side when we try to self-actualize. And that's the problem of backsliding, which is, you know, when you try to make that change in your life that you really get excited about making and then you make that change and it looks like it's working for a while and then what happens? You slide back to your old ways and then you make that change again. Again, excited this time, redoubling your efforts. And then a couple months later, you're back in your old ways. And this just keeps going on and on and on. And not only is it extremely frustrating, but it also makes you very pessimistic about the possibility of creating change in your life. And this is why sometimes people like to rag on self-help or personal development is because they've been trying to make changes, but then really they haven't been able to make any changes stick and they're just fed up with this whole backsliding process. So, it's a very real problem. It's a very big problem. You're going to encounter a lot of backsliding on your way towards uh getting somewhere far and high with your self-actualization work. So, to help you along though, maybe ease some of that frustration, make the path a little bit smoother for you, I've got some ideas for solutions to this problem of backsliding, and also I think it's important to understand why this backsliding happens, which is actually part of the solution is just understanding what is really going on here. Because most of us are usually blind to this stuff unless we've kind of studied this uh in depth. And I'm going to lean on the work of George Leonard here who wrote a beautiful little book called Mastery, which if you know me is one of my uh top books of all time. Little book, but you could read it a dozen times and not suck out all the wisdom that's in it. It's brilliant for advice for how to put your life together. Basically, it's like a philosophy of putting your life together. But you know he has the main concept of mastery and then he has a lot of little concepts kind of subconcepts I call them uh in that book and one of them iso homeostasis. He has a really great discussion about homeostasis and he offers some solutions. I'm going to present some of his solutions here along with some of my additions to what he said. So uh homeostasis what is this? This is a word this is used in the field of cybernetics and also in biology. Cybernetics is a very interesting field and it's the field of studying how systems work. Systems it turns out are very interesting things and you know we have biological systems, we have mechanical systems, all sorts of kind of systems. These days we build a lot of complex systems. But one of the interesting aspects of a system is that a system is a collection of items that are interlin together into a complex web of feedback loops. And when you have something like that which creates some sort of cohesive hole like a individual human cell or human body or a tree or a computer system or whatever then what you get is you get that this system has a center of gravity to it you might say and this center of gravity is its homeostasis. This is the place that it likes to gravitate towards and stay at because this is the safest place for it to be and because here there's been a track record of proven safety. One of the biggest challenges that systems face in our reality is that uh they're not really natural to come about and to exist. And there's a lot of elements that run against the system. A lot of threats to the system's survival, you might say. So the system has to get very good, if it comes into existence at all, of maintaining itself in a place where it can keep surviving and reproducing. And so that's where homeostasis comes in. Specifically in your own body, there's a lot of homeostatic processes that are going on all the time. You're not even aware of them. So your blood pressure is being regulated. Too low, it's a problem. Too high, it's a problem. Has to be somewhere in the middle. There's a perfect kind of Goldilock zone there. Likewise with your body temperature. Too low, it's a problem. Too high, it's a problem. In the middle somewhere, Goldilock zone, it's just right. And so on it goes with a lot of other systems that you probably haven't even been aware of or read of or heard of or even thought of or maybe that science has even discovered yet. But the body has thousands of these going on at the same time. It's very very complex. It's really fascinating just how much balance the body has to maintain. It's like you're it's almost like you're walking on a on a highwire in the circus, right? A hundred stories above. um the the ground and you're at the danger of tipping over to one side or the other side or forward or backward at all times and then you're dead. And so you always have to be watching out for this except you're not doing it. It's like your body and your unconscious mind, your brain stem is doing it all for you. Um, and see this whole process, all it really cares about is your survival and it cares about keeping you going at what's always worked before in your life. Now, these are like very low-level processes that I'm talking about, but then there's higher level processes. These are the ones that you care about changing. So, for example, when do you wake up? When do you go to sleep? Or how do you behave in a relationship? or what's your work ethic like? Or what kind of food do you put in your body? Right? All these things potentially you might want to change, what are your study habits like? How much do you exercise? How do you perform at your job? These are all things we try to improve. But interestingly enough, our subconscious mind tends to pull us back to where we were. And the reason it does this is not because it's, you know, it's not terribly smart. It just does what's always worked. And in kind of the evolutionary context, what's worked before is nice to want to work again. So, it's kind of like your brain is biased towards keeping you in the same place simply because it's been proven already. Cuz if you're alive now, it's at least been proven that the thing that is working right now has worked in the past, right? Cuz if it didn't, you'd be dead. So, just by that very simple logic, it's like, okay, well, what we've got works. The problem though is that your unconscious mind doesn't really distinguish between what works kind of well and what works really well and what's actually dysfunctional but still keeps you alive. And there's a big difference between those, right? So, we don't just want to be alive and breathing. Uh we also want to be like thriving and self-actualizing. So, if we're trying to get to those kinds of results, well, then we have to start to understand how those unconscious mechanisms work. And really your mind is like a thermostat. Thermostat. A thermostat tries to keep a certain baseline temperature wherever you set it. And if it goes too high, the AC kicks in. And if it goes too low, the heater kicks in. And so you've got these feedback loops that keep you stuck. And that's exactly what happens in most of your life with almost every habit or behavior that you have. So for example, let's say you want to leave a relationship. a relationship that you know isn't good for you. Maybe you're in a toxic relationship with some guy and you're a girl and you don't like how this guy's treating you and you think you can do better, but you're just stuck. And your conscious mind knows that this guy's not right for you. But yet somehow every time you plan on leaving, you have an argument and a fight with him. In the end, you just kind of come back anyways. And maybe you even leave, but then the next week you come back anyways cuz you want that love and that affection. And after all, he wasn't that bad. I mean, there's a lot of even bigger dick holes out there than him. So, how bad could it be? Maybe we can make this work. Or maybe you have a career and you're working on some career, but then you have some business idea and you're really excited about this new business idea and you're thinking maybe about changing careers. you're like, "Well, I don't really like this career anymore, so let me go start my own business, but I got to work on this. You know, I got to do the research. I got to lay the groundwork for starting my own business before I can drop this career." So, you're doing that and you're excited because you have this new business project and you're working on it. And let's say you're working on it on the weekends. And you're working working for a couple weeks, maybe a month goes by and then after a month, what happens? the homeostasis kicks in and your emotions pull you back and you start saying stuff like like this to yourself. You're like, well, you know, I have been working real hard for the last month and you know, it is kind of like I'm working two jobs now. It's like I have my old career now. I've got this thing. I mean, I'm really stressing myself. I should give myself a little break, right? Let me go play some video games. let me go relax with my girlfriend or whatever. And then that business project just kind of gets forgotten, gets left on the sidelines, and you never pick it up again, and it just collects dust. Or what about when you try to wake up earlier? Let's say you got this habit of waking up at noon. I've had a problem with that. And then you want to be waking up at 6:00 a.m. How do you make that change? You tell yourself, "All right, from now on, I'm really serious about this. I'm changing my life. I'm going to be waking up at 6:00 a.m. every morning, even the weekends." And then you go in it and you do it for a couple of weeks. And then what happens? You start to backslide and you start to say to yourself, "Well, but I'm working so hard. I should get a little extra time to sleep in." And it's like I really I really worked extra hard last week. So that that allows me to get up a little later and then later and then later and then later and then later and then before you know it, you're waking up at 3:00 p.m. How about eating cleaner? You ever try that? Cleaning up your diet. Man, do I even need to go into the details of how that works? I mean, it's it's all the same thing, right? You get excited about eating cleaner and you do it. You do it. You do it. do it and then you start creeping back back back to your nasty old habits cuz your friends pull you back in. Your mind starts telling you, "Well, I've been real good the last month, you know, with my diet. I should allow myself that cookie right there. Cookie looks good." I mean, what's one cookie out of a whole month of clean eating? One cookie is nothing, right? So, eat that one cookie. And then what happens? Couple months later, we look at you, you're back eating all the bullshit junk you've always been eating in your life, and nothing's really changed. So, you see where all these examples are going, right? And I mean, you can fill in the details. You've got hundreds of these examples in your own life, whatever you try to change, whyever you do personal development. But what's going on here basically is that your emotions keep pulling you back to the center. That's kind of what they're designed to do is they're designed to keep you stable, but stable isn't necessarily always in your favor. A lot of times it is and it's a really amazing and beneficial mechanism, but then it can also bite us in the ass because these emotions they sabotage us and also not just emotions but thoughts. We have thoughts that sabotage us too and this creates problems. And this is interestingly why um why you will never find a real magic pill for creating a fulfilling rewarding life. Never. Not unless we rewire the the neurons in your brain like in a like surgically rewire them because you have to exert emotional labor to make change happen in your life. That's the bottom line of it. You have to exert that emotional labor. Emotional labor happens when you resist the homeostasis. So homeostasis pulls you back to center. You have to now exert willpower to move off center and reset the center point, which is possible to do. You can reset the center point. I mean, big change is possible. It's not like you can't clean up your diet. I mean, come on, you definitely can. And it's not like you can't be waking up early in the morning. Sure, you can. You've probably done it in your life. um or any of the other stuff, you can do it. It's just it takes a little extra work and it takes a little extra craftiness than most people apply to the problem. So, we're going to get into some solutions here, but before we do, just a final reminder. Also notice that not only does this apply to the individual you who is obeying homeostasis, but also there's homeostasis in groups within your family. There's homeostasis. There's a center of gravity there within your social circle of friends. There's a homeostasis there. Center of gravity. Same thing with your colleagues at work, with your corporation as a whole, with maybe your church group or your spiritual group and even with your, you know, local community, your your entire city that you live in. There's a homeostasis point. And even with your country that you live in, there's a a homeostasis point there within the political climate and all that. And organizations, you know, if you talk about government organizations or nonprofit organizations, they all have their own homeostasis points. So, it's very important to start to recognize that these um this problem, it doesn't just apply to you, but it applies to a lot of different systems out there in the world that we want might want to probably change at some point to improve them so that our world functions better. So, it's good to learn about this, right? There's a lot of ramifications from knowing how to deal with homeostasis, but here's some solutions. I want to give you a list and um most of these are from George Leonard also with a couple little twists that I put on them. So basically here the first one is be aware that homeostasis exists and be aware that it's both a positive system and a negative system. Really, it's a lot to your benefit that there is homeostasis because it keeps you alive. So just appreciate that. And when you go into new situations that you try to change, understand that homeostasis will be kicking in. It's like a law. It's like gravity. It's going to kick in. So the question is then, how do you navigate around that force which is there? Just awareness of homeostasis already will increase your odds of successfully changing and shifting your center of gravity substantially because most people when they try to lose weight or they try to start a business or whatever they're not even thinking about homeostasis. They're completely oblivious and because of that they have a very high failure rate. They're not even able to ship their first product or do their first, you know, milestone, meet their first milestone because the homeostasis already has them by the balls. So, the next point is set very proper expectations for your self, realistic, pragmatic expectations. I'm really big on this because I discovered in my own life when I didn't set pragmatic expectations for how my business was going to go or how some creative project was going to go or whatever change I was trying to make, then that change would never happen. I would be so far off the mark. And it seems like a very simple thing, you know, an expectation. An expectation is like this just this very nebulous thought in your mind. It's not even something tangible. And yet it has a very big impact on whether you're going to succeed or not in making this change. So how do you set a proper expectation? Well, remember always remind yourself that the mind will resist when you try to make a change. The body will also resist when you try to make a change and people around you will resist when you try to make a change. Especially if we're talking about an organizational change that you're trying to make. But even if you're just making a personal change, it's very weird how that works. You know, sometimes people leave me comments and saying stuff like, "Leo, I'm learning all this stuff and I'm trying to share it with my family and they're telling me to stop meditating because it's stupid and to stop doing this personal development stuff cuz it's a scam and all this nonsense. They don't care about this the way that I do. I know it's good information, but they don't care, right? Because they're in homeostasis and they don't even know that they're in homeostasis. So that's why you have to expect that. Expect that your mind will resist by coming up with all sorts of crazy thoughts and stories and millions of rationalizations and excuses for why you should go back to where you were. So the mind will play tricks on you. And very interestingly, the body will even play tricks on you. How does it do that? Well, you get psychosmatic stuff. What's called psychosmatic. That means that it's like it's almost like a hallucination. You kind of make it up, but then your body actually starts to feel it. So like maybe you start going to the gym, right? Let's say you start a new gym routine and you start going. You're very excited and you know going great for a couple of weeks and then two weeks into it you bam all of a sudden it feels like you're catching a cold and you're like oh man I just started now I have to stop for a week to get rid of this cold but really it's not like a real proper cold. It's like a bullshit cold. It's some psychossematic little sniffle you got or a little sore throat, you know, some bullshit like that, which your mind is actually kind of creating. Uh, very freaky that your mind can do this, that your mind is creating these physical-l like symptoms that seem real to get you doubting yourself and falling back into your comfort zone. It's amazing how deceptive and tricky your mind and your body as a combination are. And then when the people in your environment come into play and pin you down into your center of gravity within that social circle, man, it's like, you know, it's like you're destined to stay in the same place. No wonder it's hard to make change. No wonder you've not gotten results from self-help. So, uh, what do we do about this? Well, one of the things that George Leonard suggests I think is great advice is be prepared for serious negotiation. He says be prepared for serious negotiation. What does this mean? Well, this means that you can't just bull your way through the problem. Sometimes we try to do that. It's like, okay, I'm going to the gym no matter what. Every single day for an hour, I'm going to go and I'm going to do it for the next 6 months. Um, and you're kind of approaching it that way. But then what starts to happen, like I said, is that, you know, two weeks in, you start feeling that cold and you start secondguessing yourself and doubting yourself. You start feeling tired and your body feels achy and it's like, oh man. and you know, uh, you don't know how this is going to fit with the rest of your schedule and your life. Like now you can't go to work on time and all this stuff. So everything starts going to hell. And at this point, if you're not able to negotiate with yourself, then what happens is that you're going to break down and quit and fall back into your uh, center of gravity. Negotiation means that you know when to ease off the gas pedal a bit so that your body doesn't just violently overreact or your mind doesn't just violently overreact. And then you also know how to press on the gas pedal when you know that there's a little bit more room to grow and you can push yourself a little bit more. So it's kind of knowing when to push yourself and when not to and being smart about it. And so maybe when you start to feel that sniffle coming on, you start feeling that cold, you could say to yourself instead of saying, "No, you know what? I have this cold and I still have to go to the gym." and then you go to the gym and you go to the gym and you go to the gym and basically then you actually do catch a cold because you're so exhausted um and you overworked yourself. Well, the smart person has to kind of say, "Okay, what's going on here? Let me negotiate." So, part of my brain is telling me that I'm going too hard. Part of me is telling me that I'm not going enough. Let me find that sweet spot in between. So, maybe tomorrow I'll go, but then I'll take the weekend off so that I can recuperate uh and not get sick for real. something like that, right? So that negotiation and this is I found like one of the most challenging aspects of personal development is the emotional labor that goes into this serious negotiation because as you're negotiating you're not sure. You're uncertain and you're kind of doubting yourself and your mind is having this um tugofwar going on inside of it. Um, and you have to stay with that and persevere through that, get some resolution of it, and come out the other end and not quit. And that's what I mean by emotional labor. And this is why most people don't have powerful self-actualized lives is because they're not able to cope with this emotional labor. So, that's that point. Couple other points. Develop a support system. So the people around you are important. Some of the things that are really difficult to do have classic support systems already established in society. So if you want to lose weight, there's like Weight Watchers and other programs. If you want to get off of alcohol, there's uh Alcoholics Anonymous. There's rehab programs. There's programs and communities that will help you to get better at dating, plan your wedding, start a new business. whatever other aspects of your life you might have, right? There's communities for it. And these communities can be very, very helpful because they're like a support system. They support you emotionally. That's the most important thing. Emotional support, camaraderie, powerful. Another thing I recommend is have a meditation habit in place. What I found is that putting a meditation habit in place is like the ultimate number one habit which then allows you to draw energy from that to build new habits. Why is it so powerful? Because meditation gets you more awareness of all the emotional bullshit that's going on in your brain. So basically, you're able to see and be more aware of the homeostasis as it's happening. and you're able to see and negotiate better because you're more aware of the backlash that your mind creates. I recommend you meditate daily. I think it's the most important habit if you're into personal development and I have videos on that that can teach you how to meditate. I think also another very important habit is the visualization habit. I have a video on visualization that will teach you how to set up a habit there and how to do visualization properly. But basically you want to do a little bit of visualization on a daily basis like 5 10 20 minutes of visualization towards your goals and specifically the thing that you want to try to change. So whatever you're trying to create in your life you know this this move away from homeostasis because if you can visualize it in your mind that helps your mind buy into it and be on board with it in a way that it wouldn't otherwise. Just very simply, if we have you some, you know, do some task tomorrow. Let's say tomorrow you need to go do the laundry, you're much more likely to go do it if we just have you close your eyes right now and for 5 minutes visualize doing the laundry tomorrow. But do it right now. Visualize yourself doing the laundry right now in your mind. If you do that for five minutes, you're going to have at least double the chances of doing your laundry successfully tomorrow than you normally would. So think about the ramifications of that throughout your whole life. Pretty powerful, worth implementing. Another point is make sure that the thing you're trying to really change is the right thing. A lot of times we try to change superficial or stupid stuff in our lives. I mean you have a lot of choices. You could probably change a 100 different things about your life and really only effectively you can change one or two at a time. So big mistake that people make is they try to change more than one or two things at a time. Really focus just on one at a time because even two will get you um much worse results than just one. Um so pick the right thing, the thing that's really going to make a meaningful difference for you. What I found is that if I pick the wrong thing, kind of like a huh, yeah, that'll be nice, but yeah, I can kind of take it or leave it, then it'll never be changed. There's just not enough willingness on my part to overcome the emotional labor and resistance that will be involved. So, it's not even worth starting. Make sure you're really doing the right things. This goes uh to having a life purpose to knowing what your purpose is in life to uh knowing and understanding your top 10 values. When you understand your own values, understand yourself on a very deep and authentic level, then you know how to choose the right things. And that's a magical thing. And in fact, I'm working on a life purpose course right now which I want to release in the coming months which will help you to figure all that out because there's so much material there that we need to cover. But anyways, that's off topic. The other thing I recommend is that I recommend that when you do find the right things to change very strategically, picking the right thing and then what you got to do is you got to make 100% commitment. Super important. 100% commitment. No excuses. No wiggle room. Um I found this really works well for me cuz if you make like a 95% commitment that 5% wiggle room wiggle room will kill you in the end. Too many excuses will come into play. your mind will just rationalize it away and bring you back to homeostasis. So, you know, one of the areas in my life where I used the 100% commitment, which was worked really well for me, is with my meditation habit, which I've been doing now for about one and a half years. And in that time, I haven't missed a single day of meditation at all, ever. And I've meditated for one hour every day for that whole time. So, that's like over 400 days, I believe. I haven't counted them lately. 400 or so days straight. How was I able to do that? I'm kind of surprised that I was able to do that because, you know, I like to slack off on stuff. But, um, the reason I did that is because I just at one point my in my life, I just said, "Oh, I see that this is so fucking important to my life and to my results. This is really the right thing for me." I saw very clearly that this was the right piece of the puzzle for me. So then I'm like, okay, if it's that right, then 100% commitment cuz I know that if I skip even one day of meditation, I'm going to be skipping days here and there and everywhere pretty soon. So I just said, you know what? No matter what, even if it kills me, even if I'm in the hospital, no matter what, no matter where I am, who I'm with, holidays, breaks, Christmas, this, that, whatever, I'm doing my meditation. And I've really stuck to that and it's worked really beautiful. I'm I'm surprised how well it's worked. So, I'm going to keep going because that one's working for me. I recommend that you apply that with whatever habits you want to build. Couple of remaining points, just reminders for you. This is stuff you got to remind yourself of over and over again. Remember that failure this time does make it easier next time. So, if you're trying to lose weight and you failed once, well, the second time will be easier, if only a little. It will be easier, and the third time will be a little easier again, and so will the fourth, cuz you're you're learning stuff even as you're failing. So this can be a little consolation prize even if you fail, right? And most people, very interestingly enough, here's why this is important is that most people grossly underestimate, no, sorry, they grossly overestimate how much they've attempted something, specifically making a change. So most people, if you ask them, let's say you ask a fat person, oh, how many times have you tried a diet and lose your weight? and they'll think about it and they'll say, "Yeah, you know, throughout the last 10 years, I've probably tried it like 15 times and every time it's failed." But then if you actually sit down with that person and actually force them to tell you the dates of when they tried their different diets and you look and you see the facts of the situation, you'll you'll realize, "Oh, actually, it wasn't 15 times. It was more like three times." Three. 15 versus three. big fucking difference, right? Your mind grossly overestimates these things. You try it three times and it's like, oh yeah, it's like I've seen it a I don't know, 15 times. Kind of like with movies. Sometimes you have that effect with movies. Have you have you noticed that? It's like, how many times have you seen Star Wars? And you might say, oh yeah, I've seen it 20 times. In reality though, if you think about it, like how many times have I seen Star Wars? Single digits. Really? Single digits. Even though I like to think of myself as like I've seen it so many times. I knew it front to back. No, you've only seen it a handful of times at most. Unless you're like some real fucking nerd. Um, so your mind tends to do that, right? So why is this important? Well, because your mind tends to make the obstacle bigger than it is. It's like, well, I've tried 15 fucking times to lose this weight and it's never worked, so it's never going to work. But really, you've only tried it three times, right? How about a little more effort? If you tried it 15 times for real, I bet you you'd figure out how to make it work. And also the last reminder I want to give you is um don't discount how powerful just one change can be. Just one change. Sometimes we look at all this and we get very overwhelmed with personal development work and we tell ourselves, well, look, I need a meditation habit. I need a visualization habit. I need to get my business habits. I need to get my health habits and my diet habits and all this all these habits. I need 25 habits. Look, you're thinking way too far ahead. You're overwhelming yourself. Just one change can be a very transformational change to your life. It can significantly make a big dent in the whole trajectory of your life. Right? The key is to choose those powerful changes. So, for example, one of those might be a meditation habit. If you could just see into the future 10 or 20 years from now, what even 20 minutes of meditation a day could snowball into, you would be baffled. It would awe strike you at what's possible with 20 minutes of meditation for 20 years straight. Your life would just completely revolutionize. The problem is though that me telling you this doesn't actually get you to believe it. It's like you have a little inkling of an idea, but you don't really understand what I'm talking about. And so, um, because of this, you don't give proper weight and value to putting this one little change into your life. If you saw what this meditation habit could do for you 20 years down the road, you would be doing meditation religiously like your life depended on it every single morning. But you don't, do you? Probably not. Why? Well, because you discount the power of just one little change. So, it really takes vision on your part. You have to be a visionary of your own life. You have to see how the little changes can snowball into massive qualitative explosions of change in the future. So, remind yourself of that. So, when you're feeling overwhelmed, just tell yourself, "Okay, what's the one thing I got to put into place right now that's really going to make a huge difference 20 years from now if I just do it every single day." Find the answer to that question. It's usually pretty simple. It's not rocket science. And then you give it the value that it deserves. And you say, "Shit, this is really fucking important. I better do this. 100% commitment. This is really important." and that will help you a lot. So, take all that to heart. Incorporate all those ideas and go make some big changes in your life. Don't succumb to the gravity of homeostasis. All right, that's it. I'm signing off. Post me your comments down below. Click the like button, please. Share this video with a friend and come sign up to the newsletter at actualize.org right here. It's a free newsletter. I release new videos every week on how to develop the proper mindsets to live to your fullest potential in life. How do you actualize yourself? How do you get to the highest levels of human fulfillment and consciousness that are possible and they are possible for you? It's just that there's a lot of different counterintuitive things that you've never thought about in your entire life that are preventing you, keeping you stuck. So, what I'm interested in is helping you to get unstuck and starting to taste, really taste the sweet taste of getting to those higher levels of human evolution. It's amazing what your life can feel like. It feels to me like, man, most of the people alive today are going to die and never even reach 10% of their full potential. And it's like they're missing the best parts of life. They're leaving those off the table and they're dying without ever having savored them, which is uh something we want to correct. So, sign up for that right now and I'll see you soon.
